---
### orinally sourced from https://www.reddit.com/r/Bitcoin/comments/3urm8o/optin_rbf_is_misunderstood_ask_questions_about_it/
title: Opt-in RBF FAQ
name: optin-rbf-faq
type: page
permalink: /en/faq/optin_rbf
share: true
---
{% include _toc.html %}

##What is Opt-in RBF?

Opt-in RBF (replace-by-fee) means transactions can be explicitly marked as replaceable and making it clear to the receiver.

##Does the opt-in RBF implementation change the likelihood that a "non-RBF" (max value nSequence) transaction can be double-spent?

No.  A transaction must be marked replaceable (sequence number *below* MAX*-1*) to be replaceable.

## Does Opt-in RBF make fraudulent spends significantly more successful?

Opt-in RBF has no effect on transactions which are not using it and no one is forced to use it. Opt-in RBF has no effect once a transaction has been confirmed. Users who care about unconfirmed transaction can continue to not use RBF.

Even so, An interesting alternative question is "Are Opt-in transactions themselves more useful tools to dedicated fraudsters, assuming people accept them without confirmation?"

We currently do not have reason to believe that they are, at least not significantly, against fraudsters using the most effective tools and practices known. But if they are (or until it is more clear that they are not) recipients can protect themselves by continuing to regard them as unsafe until they become confirmed. This response is especially appropriate because the ability to replace means that there is no risk of sender-unwanted very long confirmation days.

In an asynchronous distributed system there is no such thing as a globally consistent "first". What you saw first someone else can and often will see second. And in the Bitcoin design memory pools are not convergent: time passing does not make mempools more consistent.  Sophisticated double spending attackers today use tools to map the network connectivity by making harmless looking conflicting spends and seeing which versions show up at which merchants and in which blocks. When they double spend they can concurrently announce their conflicting self payment to some miners while sending the merchant payment to everyone else. The presence of the non-replaceable merchant payment prevents nodes from learning the double-spend, concealing it from the merchant's observation-- until it shows up in a block, placed by a miner that was merely mining the thing they saw first. This simple, common pattern is sometimes further amplified by additional techniques like using unconfirmed transaction chains, low fees, or non-standard transactions.

As a result the vast majority of the security for unconfirmed transactions comes not from within the Bitcoin system, but from factors like the customer's unwilliness to defraud, the vendors tolerance for small amounts of fraud, the existence of the possibility of external recourse, etc. all of which hold true for Opt-In RBF (And not unlike the situation for credit card payments in the US-- they're almost perfectly reversible for _months_). Also, because RBF can sometimes eliminate long confirmation delays, some uses which previously felt forced to accept unconfirmed transaction will no longer need to do so, which reduces their fraud exposure.

However, no one using Opt-in RBF is insisting that you agree with the above view on unconfirmed transaction security. Opt-in RBF is Opt-in, and if it doesn't fit your needs you are not required to use it.

## Who invented unconfirmed transaction replacement? Does it go against the "vision" of Bitcoin?

Transaction replacement for unconfirmed transactions was [a feature in the very first release of Bitcoin](https://github.com/trottier/original-bitcoin/blob/master/src/main.cpp#L434).  Transactions could mark themselves as replaceable by setting a non-maximal sequence number. This was later disabled because it was vulnerable to denial of service attacks.

Although the feature was very useful the denial of service problems and the fact that it was not incentive compatible (What incentive would miners follow the convention and accept a replacement?-- what if they made more from the earlier version?) kept it from being restored.

Later Peter Todd proposed requiring replacements to pay strictly greater feerate and to require that the replacement increase the feerate by at least the minimum required to relay a new transaction. This both eliminated the denial of service and incentive compatibility problems.

Peter's original work went further and carried the incentive compatibility to its logical conclusion, reasoning that with anonymous, ephemeral, self-selecting miners the only behavior you can really count on is replacement with higher fees. Higher fee preference can also be made more globally convergent than seen first, because there is no global definition of 'first' in an asynchronous distributed system. Because of these reasons and because the system behaving in expected ways is more secure and protective than the system behaving in "unpredictable but better on average ways", he proposed making replacement happen for all transactions. He also proposed a protocol to remove economic gains from double spending in a strong incentive compatible way, called replacement scorched earth-- if someone attempts to double spend you, you send the funds all to fees so the attacker doesn't get them, but it was the kind of proposal only a game theorist could really love. After Peter's proposal, we heard a number of wallets call very strongly for opt-in RBF, as they really needed a reasonable way to handle fees and saw opt-in RBF as a good way to do so which is why the proposal was changed to Satoshi's original opt-in behavior. 

##Was the Opt-in RBF Pull-req controversial?

Not in the slightest. After extensive informal discussion stemming back months the [PR](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/6871) was opened on October 22nd. It was subsequently discussed in at least four bitcoin development weekly meetings ([2015-11-06](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1253158.0), [2015-11-12](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1253163.0), [2015-11-19](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1260514.0), and 2015-11-26).

In the PR discussion, 19 people commented (including people working on at least three different wallet brands) and 14 people explicitly ACKed the change, including at least one person who had been very outspoken in the past against full RBF.  No clearly negative feedback was provided in the PR (or elsewhere that I am aware of) whatsoever.

## When and how does this change get activated?

Opt-in RBF doesn't really have an "activation", it's not a part of Bitcoin's consensus; it's a local policy behavior and the change happens one node at a time, as people adopt software that behaves differently.  There are already some nodes on the network which RBF in various ways and there have been for some time (years?).

Bitcoin Core 0.12 will be released in a couple months (exact timing depends on how testing progress goes) and will include Opt-in RBF, and after that it will likely take a couple additional months before the behavior is commonplace. This may be sped up by the development of applications that make interesting use of it.

## Is Opt-in RBF only useful for adjusting fees?

No, Opt-in RBF can also be used to make low-priority transactions much more efficient by revising them to pay multiple parties when the sender finds they have more parties to pay and their last payment hasn't confirmed yet, or when they find they need to increase the payment amount for a party they are already paying. This also lets transaction authors avoid spending unconfirmed change.

Opt-in RBF can also be used to implement more advanced cooperative scability schemes such as [transaction cut-through](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=281848.0).

Various [smart contract](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=321228.0) cases also need replacement, but they usually use locktime to create stronger ordering and work around the historic unavailability of replacement; these were presumably the motivation for supporting replacement in the Bitcoin protocol in its original design.

The ability to adjust means that the initial fee can use a lower "most likely" estimate instead of having to over-pay just in case; resulting in lower fees even when replacements are rarely made.

##Would a wallet need to stay online to issue replacements with higher fees?

No. Replacements can be pre-computed and time locked, though software making use of RBF hasn't been written yet.

For example. At block 100 a wallet wants to make a transaction set to confirm within 3 blocks. The wallet authors a transaction locked at 101 with its best estimate of a three block confirmation fee, at the same time it also authors replacement transactions locktimed for heights 104, 105, 106, 107... each paying (say) 1.5x the fee of the last. These can be handed to a node that accepts advanced locktime transactions.

Even if miners know higher fees will be paid in the future, rationally they still prefer the one they can include now, since if they wait another miner will likely take the fees. The multiplicative increase suggested above means that at worst a transaction would overpay by 50%, but can still reach arbitrarily high fees in few transactions.

##Does Opt-in RBF increase the risk that "lazy" transaction processors will get scammed?

It doesn't appear to be so, at least not significantly and this is by design. Opt-In RBF is signaled using the sequence field for transaction which is specifically intended to cover replaceability. Many things trusting unconfirmed transactions already regard low sequence numbered transactions as suspect and ignore them until they confirm. 

There are dozens of other ways that transactions can change their speed or reliably of confirmation and aid double spending: Paying low fee, using non-standard flags or versions, spending unconfirmed inputs, behaving like any number of DOS attack patterns, creating dust txouts, etc. These criteria are frequently shipping and depend on node specific policy that is configurable by users. Parties attempting to estimate the risk of an unconfirmed payment must track all these things and more, which are constantly shifting. Opt-in RBF is a highly communicated addition known months in advance, that overlays on already detected behavior. If there is any change in the efforts required for unconfirmed transaction vigilance, it's likely in the noise.

Beyond that, it's unclear that an RBF Opted-in transaction will actually be significantly more vulnerable to double spending than non-RBF ones, at least against attackers with sophisticated tools.

Some parties that perform unconfirmed confidence analysis have clearly indicated that they're ready for it: https://twitter.com/BlockCypher/status/670334879565922304  ... and if anyone is aware of software that still needs help adapting, let me know and I'd be glad to help.

##What if I think that RBF is just awful?

Then don't use it: Don't set it on your own transactions and treat transactions you receive with all sequence numbers < MAX_INT-1 as non-existing (or already double-spent) until they confirm. Opt-in RBF is Opt-in.

No commonly used software that I'm aware of sets its sequence numbers to below MAX_INT-1, and many programs (including "transaction confidence" meters) already regard low sequence numbers as potentially double spendable. After all, the transaction has been explicitly marked as replaceable, and even without RBF, nlocktime may result in a conflict getting confirmed first.

If someone sends you a replaceable transaction and you won't zero-conf credit it, their replacement can make it get confirmed as fast as they want it to get confirmed. The same sorts of situations exist already for senders using non-standard transaction features or spending unconfirmed outputs, which transactions objectively more double spendable, but in those cases there is no fix to get the transaction through quickly. 

RBF is a feature for consenting adults. If you don't want to participate in it, you don't need to. Your dislike of it isn't a reason to prevent others from using it in transactions that don't involve you.

Many people believe common dislikes of RBF are likely ill-founded and that non-RBF is unreliable and unsafe, but you shouldn't mistake their explanations for an argument that you have to use it.

##Q: Why implement 'opt-in' and not just let miners go with straight up (full) RBF?

Nothing actually stops miners from doing full RBF on txns right now without the opt in sequence no. flag. Are we just trusting miners here to play fair with this flag given it can't (currently) be enforced through consensus validation via CPFP or other schemes? If so it would rather be easier to just acknowledge RBF is here to stay and then no coding is required to Bitcoin Core.

##I heard Opt-in RBF was added with little or no discussion

Recent RBF discussions going back to May 2015.

Github:
- Add first-seen-safe replace-by-fee logic to the mempool [#6176](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/6176)
- Scheduled full-RBF deployment [#6352](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/6352)
- nSequence-based Full-RBF opt-in [#6871](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/6871)

IRC meeting:
https://www.reddit.com/r/Bitcoin/comments/3t1in5/bitcoin_dev_irc_meeting_in_laymans_terms_20151112/

There are many other logs which can be found at http://bitcoinstats.com/ for #bitcoin-dev and https://botbot.me/freenode/bitcoin-core-dev/ for #bitcoin-core-dev

Mailing list discussions in no particular order:

- [[bitcoin-dev] Opt-in Full Replace-By-Fee (Full-RBF)](https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-dev/2015-November/011783.html)
- [[Bitcoin-development] First-Seen-Safe Replace-by-Fee](http://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-dev/2015-May/008248.html)
- [[Bitcoin-development] Cost savings by using replace-by-fee, 30-90%](http://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-dev/2015-May/008232.html)
- [[bitcoin-dev] Significant losses by double-spending unconfirmed transactions](http://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-dev/2015-July/009420.html)
- [[bitcoin-dev] BIP: Full Replace-by-Fee deployment schedule](http://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-dev/2015-June/009253.html)
- [[Bitcoin-development] replace-by-fee v0.10.0rc4](http://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-dev/2015-February/007404.html)
- [[bitcoin-dev] How wallets can handle real transaction fees](https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-dev/2015-November/011685.html)

Satoshi originally introduced [unconfirmed transaction replacement](https://github.com/trottier/original-bitcoin/blob/master/src/main.cpp#L434)
but this was disabled due to a DOS attack (which Peter Todd fixed by requiring a higher fee for each replacement).

## Can this be used to double spend against unprepared (old) wallets? Will all wallets have to update?

> Can this be used to double spend against unprepared (old) wallets?

Unconfirmed transactions can always be double spent, with or without RBF. RBF doesn't make fraud any easier (it's already easy), only legitimate double spending. So the answer is "yes", but it was already "yes" before RBF, and there is nothing wallets can do to change it to a "no" either way.

> Will all wallets have to update?

Only to make use of it. This opens up a lot of room to improve wallets.

## Why not FSS-RBF? (First-seen-safe Replace-by-fee)

First-seen-safe means that transactions can only be modified if all previous outputs are fully spent. This prevents double spends.

The problem with FSS is when you spend money you are signing the "change" (think like quarters, nickles, type change) over back to yourself.

Since FSS requires that change output to be fully spent as well, you might not have any money to add to the transaction.

That's the reason why FSS isn't seen as useful, but that's not the reason the core devs didn't jump straight for it.

The Core devs want to use Opt-in RBF to "compress" transactions and FSS-RBF Doesn't allow that.

To elaborate, FSS-RBF (1) results in larger transactions because you must add a new input rather than just adjust your change output, and (2) is a wallet implementor's nightmare to get right because it involves merging coins to update a fee. If you care about privacy and/or keeping sources of coins separate to defeat block chain analysis, FSS-RBF requires keeping pools of UTXOs available to update fees.

## What is "Child pays for parent" (CPFP)?

### What is it?

Child pays for parent is a way of adding fees to a transaction by making an another transaction that depends on the first.

### Why wasn't it used for RBF?

It doesn't solve the same problem. Core devs are looking for compressing transactions, not necessarily adding fees alone.

Well specifically adding fees and compressing transactions, and Greg Maxwell don't like CPFP as much because it requires a separate transaction.

Both RBF and CPFP will end up being used.

Quoting from Peter Todd's email to the developer [mailing list](http://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-dev/2015-May/008232.html)

**tl;dr Cost savings by using replace-by-fee, 30-90%**

CPFP is a significantly more expensive way of paying fees than RBF,
particularly for the use-case of defragmenting outputs, with cost
savings ranging from 30% to 90%

####Case 1: CPFP vs. RBF for increasing the fee on a single tx

Creating an spending a P2PKH output uses 34 bytes of txout, and 148
bytes of txin, 182 bytes total.

Let's suppose I have a 1 BTC P2PKH output and I want to pay 0.1 BTC to
Alice. This results in a 1in/2out transaction t1 that's 226 bytes in size.
I forget to click on the "priority fee" option, so it goes out with the
minimum fee of 2.26uBTC. Whoops! I use CPFP to spend that output,
creating a new transaction t2 that's 192 bytes in size. I want to pay
1mBTC/KB for a fast confirmation, so I'm now paying 418uBTC of
transaction fees.

On the other hand, had I use RBF, my wallet would have simply
rebroadcast t1 with the change address decreased. The rules require you
to pay 2.26uBTC for the bandwidth consumed broadcasting it, plus the new
fee level, or 218uBTC of fees in total.

Cost savings: 48%

####Case 2: Paying multiple recipients in succession

Suppose that after I pay Alice, I also decide to pay Bob for his hard
work demonstrating cryptographic protocols. I need to create a new
transaction t2 spending t1's change address. Normally t2 would be
another 226 bytes in size, resulting in 226uBTC additional fees.

With RBF on the other hand I can simply double-spend t1 with a
transaction paying both Alice and Bob. This new transaction is 260 bytes
in size. I have to pay 2.6uBTC additional fees to pay for the bandwidth
consumed broadcasting it, resulting in an additional 36uBTC of fees.

Cost savings: 84%


#### Case 3: Paying multiple recipients from a 2-of-3 multisig wallet

The above situation gets even worse with multisig. t1 in the multisig
case is 367 bytes; t2 another 367 bytes, costing an additional 367uBTC
in fees. With RBF we rewrite t1 with an additional output, resulting in
a 399 byte transaction, with just 36uBTC in additional fees.

Cost savings: 90%

####Case 4: Dust defragmentation

My wallet has a two transaction outputs that it wants to combine into
one for the purpose of UTXO defragmentation. It broadcasts transaction
t1 with two inputs and one output, size 340 bytes, paying zero fees.

Prior to the transaction confirming I find I need to spend those funds
for a priority transaction at the 1mBTC/KB fee level. This transaction,
t2a, has one input and two outputs, 226 bytes in size. However it needs
to pay fees for both transactions at once, resulting in a combined total
fee of 556uBTC. If this situation happens frequently, defragmenting
UTXOs is likely to cost more in additional fees than it saves.

With RBF I'd simply doublespend t1 with a 2-in-2-out transaction 374
bytes in size, paying 374uBTC. Even better, if one of the two inputs is
sufficiently large to cover my costs I can doublespend t1 with a
1-in-2-out tx just 226 bytes in size, paying 226uBTC.

Cost savings: 32% to 59%, or even infinite if defragmentation w/o RBF
              costs you more than you save
