---
title: Compte-rendu de la réunion IRC du 2015-10-29
permalink: /fr/meetings/2015/10/29/
name: 2015-10-29-meeting
type: meetings
layout: page
lang: fr
version: 1
---
## Logs

- [link vers les logs de cette semaine](http://bitcoinstats.com/irc/bitcoin-dev/logs/2015/10/29#l1446145259.0)  
- [Procès-verbal généré par meetbot](http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-dev/2015/bitcoin-dev.2015-10-29-19.02.html)  
- [Version google doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1t3kGkAUQ-Yui57P29YhDll5WyJuTiGrUhCW8so-E-iQ/edit)

## Sujets principaux  
  
- Upcoming softfork   
- Chain limits  
- Clang format  
- BIP68 and BIP112 implementations

###Short topics/notes

The LevelDB topic was started but deferred till after the meeting as there are currently no plans to move to another database. However research and testing is encouraged. mcelrath volunteered to make a LMDB branch, jgarzik already has a sqlite branch.

##Upcoming softfork

### contexte  

CheckLockTimeVerify (CLTV) alias "comment vous pensiez que nLockTime fonctionnait avant de l'essayer réellement" est un soft fork dont la sortie est prévue à la fin du mois d'octobre (au final ce sera début novembre).

### commentaires

Check to see if there's anything that needs to be included in this release that's not already in. Luke-jr has a [Pull-request](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/6825) open to add bugfixes.  
Check to see if there's any coordination for the softfork in regards to other clients. [btcd](https://github.com/btcsuite/btcd) is ready for it, [bitcoinj](https://github.com/bitcoinj/bitcoinj) historically hasn't implemented any softforks.  

### conclusion  

Release with only CLTV as softfork.

##Chain limits

### contexte  

Chain in this context means connected transactions. When you send a transaction that depends on another transaction that has yet to be confirmed we talk about a chain of transactions. 
Miners ideally take the whole chain into account instead of just every single transaction (although that's not widely implemented afaik). So while a single transaction might not have a sufficient fee, a depending transaction could have a high enough fee to make it worthwhile to mine both.
This is commonly known as child-pays-for-parent.  
Since you can make these chains very big it's possible to clog up the mempool this way.   
With the recent maleability attacks, anyone who made transactions going multiple layers deep would've already encountered huge problems doing this (beautifully explained in [let's talk bitcoin #258](https://letstalkbitcoin.com/blog/post/lets-talk-bitcoin-258-liquidity-and-malleability) from 13:50 onwards)   
[Proposal](https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-dev/2015-October/011401.html) and [github](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/6771) link.

### commentaires

25 as limit is still very high and could be lower.  
Discussion on which statistics and measurements would be useful and relevant to this proposal.

### conclusion

Morcos will do some extra measurements to back up the proposal.

##Clang format

### contexte

Just like libconsensus this is something to tidy up the code, but more about the style and format of the code itself. Quoting part of a github comment by gmaxwell:  
"Stylistic consistency has actual benefits; it aids newcomers in their contributions because it is easier for them to make sure their work is okay on styleistic grounds; though this may be offset by having to install some particular version of clang-format before they can get started. It eases review because the uniformity creates better expectations; but reformating makes looking at the history harder, which harms review. Good style choices (as opposed to merely consistent) have, at times, been shown to lower defect rates in software-- but there is not a universal opinion on what choices are good."  
 
### commentaires

Proposal a while ago was to clang-format file set <a b c ...> Once done, maintain those files' formatting with automation.  
Opinions diverge pretty hard. From let's not change anything for existing files to let's change the entire bitcoin repository.  
Some behavior changes from one Clang version to another,  which would require everyone to use the same version of clang format, which is burdensome.

### conclusion

No conclusion.

##BIP68 and BIP112 implementations**

### contexte

- [BIP 68](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0068.mediawiki)  Remplacement de transaction imposé par consensus et signalé via les numéros de séquence, et [implémentation actuelle](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/6312).  
- [BIP 112](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0112.mediawiki) CHECKSEQUENCEVERIFY, et [implémentation](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/6564) actuelle.  

En bref: BIP 68 change la signification du champ numéro de séquence en un temps de verrouillage (locktime) relatif.  BIP 112 rend ce champ accessible au système de script de Bitcoin.

### commentaires

Concerns about the fact that the LockTime function skips non-existing inputs.  
For review purposes btcdrak combined both pull-requests ( https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/compare/master...btcdrak:sequenceandcsv )  

### conclusion

Both implementations should stay separate pull-requests.  
No use in deploying BIP 112 before BIP 68.

## Participants

    gmaxwell        Gregory Maxwell  
    dcousens        Daniel Cousens  
    sipa            Pieter Wuille  
    jgarzik         Jeff Garzik  
    morcos          Alex Morcos  
    Luke-Jr         Luke Dashjr  
    wumpus          Wladimir J. van der Laan  
    mcelrath        Bob McElrath   
    jtimon          Jorge Timón   
    jonasshnelli    Jonas Schnelli  
    btcdrak         btcdrak  
    petertodd       Peter Todd  
    dstadulis       Daniel Stadulis   
    dgenr8          Tom Harding   
    jeremyrubin     Jeremy Rubin  
    warren          Warren Togami  
    rusty           Rusty Russell  
    sdaftuar        Suhas Daftuar

## Crédits

Ce compte-rendu a été réalisé par Stefan Gilis alias “G1lius”, diffusé à la [liste de diffusion bitcoin-discuss][meetingsource] avec l’avertissement suivant “SVP comprenez que je ne suis pas un développeur de sorte que certains points pourraient être incorrects ou complètement faux.” et placé dans le domaine public.

[meetingsource]: http://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-discuss/2015-November/000007.html