---
title: Compte-rendu de la réunion IRC du 2015-10-22
permalink: /fr/meetings/2015/10/22/
name: 2015-10-22-meeting
type: meetings
layout: page
lang: fr
version: 1
---
## Logs

- [lien vers les logs de cette semaine](http://bitcoinstats.com/irc/bitcoin-dev/logs/2015/10/22#l1445540405.0)  
- [Procès-verbal généré par meetbot](http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-dev/2015/bitcoin-dev.2015-10-22-19.05.html)

## Sujets principaux  
  
- Mempool Memory Usage   
- LevelDB replacement   
- Median Past locktime & CLTV 

###Short topics/notes

[BIP 9](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0009.mediawiki) Versionbits [PR #6816](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/6816) is ready for implementation and needs more reviews.

A 3 month moderation period on the bitcoin-dev mailinglist has started, as well as a new list bitcoin-discuss. more details: http://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-dev/2015-October/011591.html

"bitcoin.org had incorrect release notes for 0.11.1. It's corrected now. They had posted the release notes for the initial RC and not updated them. Process wise it would be good to watch out for that in the future."


##Mempool Memory Usage

### contexte  

When a transaction is relayed across the network it is held by the nodes in memory, until it gets into a block. All these transactions that sit in memory are called the memorypool or mempool for short.  
Like we could see during the spam-attack if there's a big back-log of transactions that couldn't make it in the blockchain this mempool can get pretty big resulting in nodes crashing.  

To stop this from happening devs created a mechanism to reject and/or remove transactions from the mempool. This [mempool limiting](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/6722) got merged this week.  

Also relevant: There is an already existing limit on the database cache size called "dbCache". The default value for that is 100MB.

### commentaires

Testing shows there's a discrepancy between the configured mempool limit and the actual memory usage. This is caused by the amount of [UTXO](https://bitcoin.org/en/glossary/unspent-transaction-output) data when processing transactions.   
This data is only flushed after a block is processed (so temporarily exceeding the cache limit set in dbCache).  

There are 2 "obvious" solutions for this:  

1. Always enforce the UTXO cache limit, just like the mempool limit is always enforced.  
Downside for that is if you misconfigure your mempool limit an attack can blow away your UTXO cache, which significantly slows down validation and propagation. 

2. Take the UTXO cache into account when limiting the mempool.  
Downside for that is that you could construct transactions which require way more cache space and thereby more easily kick out other transactions.

A more optimal solution would be to give priority in the cache to things in the mempool.  
Ways to achieve that are to kick UTXO's from transaction that are evicted from the mempool out of the cache and from transactions that never made it into the mempool.  
Something TheBlueMatt [is working on](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/6872)

### conclusion  

Continue to research and optimize.

##LevelDB replacement

### contexte  

LevelDB is the database system currently used in bitcoin. Since this is not being maintained for some time devs are looking for replacements.

### commentaires

jgarzik worked on a [patch for SQLite](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/6873)  
Some people express concerns whether the performance will be good enough with SQLite, but there are no benchmark results yet.
 
### conclusion

Do research into other options  
Do lots of benchmarks and report results

##Median Past locktime & CLTV

### contexte

Quand un bloc est créé les mineurs incluent un horodatage (timestamp).  Cet horodatage doit être compris entre la valeur médiane des 11 blocs précédents et le temps ajusté du réseau +2 heures.  Cet horodatage peut différer significativement de l'heure réelle.  
Avec l'introduction des transactions verrouillées dans le temps, qui ne sont valides qu'après un certain moment précis, les mineurs sont incités à mentir à propos du temps afin de pouvoir inclure ces transactions verrouillées (avec les frais) qui sinon ne seraient pas valides.  
BIP 113 enables the usage of GetMedianTimePast (the median of the previous 11 blocks) from the prior block in lock-time transactions to combat this behaviour. Users can compensate for this by adding 1 hour (6 blocks) to their lock times.

CLTV stands for CheckLockTimeVerify, [BIP65](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/6351) Commonly reffered to as: How you thought nLockTime worked before you actually tried to use it. 

### commentaires

CLTV is ready to be merged (and has been merged at time of writing)  
Questions of whether to add median past locktime as mempool only or as softfork  
Overall questions as to what to include in the CLTV deployment, what to include as mem-pool only and what as softfork. 
Median past locktime violates current 'standard' behavior, so we would prefer to have that violation dead in the network before the median past locktime softfork moves forward.  

### conclusion

review [BIP-113: Mempool-only median time-past as endpoint for lock-time calculations](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/6566)
review the CLTV backports (done and merged at time of writing)  
Backport median past locktime to 0.10 and 0.11

##Participants

    btcdrak         btcdrak  
    sipa            Pieter Wuille  
    gmaxwell        Gregory Maxwell    
    BlueMatt        Matt Corallo   
    morcos          Alex Morcos  
    petertodd       Peter Todd  
    CodeShark       Eric Lombrozo  
    jgarzik         Jeff Garzik  
    maaku           Mark Friedenbach   
    kanzure         Bryan Bishop   
    jcorgan         Johnathan Corgan     
    Luke-Jr         Luke Dashjr  
    jonasschnelli   Jonas Schnelli  
    sdaftuar        Suhas Daftuar  

## Crédits

Ce compte-rendu a été réalisé par Stefan Gilis alias “G1lius”, diffusé à la [liste de diffusion bitcoin-discuss][meetingsource] avec l’avertissement suivant “SVP comprenez que je ne suis pas un développeur de sorte que certains points pourraient être incorrects ou complètement faux.” et placé dans le domaine public.

[meetingsource]: http://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-discuss/2015-October/000003.html