---
title: IRC meeting summary for 2015-11-26
permalink: /en/meetings/2015/11/26/
name: 2015-11-26-meeting
type: meetings
layout: page
lang: en
version: 1
---
{% include _toc.html %}

## Logs

- [link to this week logs](http://bitcoinstats.com/irc/bitcoin-dev/logs/2015/11/26#l1448565880.0)  
- [Meeting minutes by meetbot](http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-dev/2015/bitcoin-dev.2015-11-26-19.24.html)  

## Main topics  
  
- CLTV activation  
- BIP68/BIP112 implementation  
- Replace-by-fee

## CLTV activation

### background  

CheckLockTimeVerify (CLTV) aka "how you thought nLockTime worked before you actually tried to use it" aka OP_HODL.

### meeting comments

It's plausible the CLTV softfork will activate within just a few weeks, as everyone but a few big miners have adopted it.  
About 20% of the nodes currently run CLTV-supporting versions. The negative effect of not upgrading is a degraded validation (SPV).  

### meeting conclusion  

Do a social media reminder to upgrade nodes to v0.11.2/v0.10.4

## BIP68/BIP112 implementation

### background  

- [BIP 68](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0068.mediawiki)  Consensus-enforced transaction replacement signaled via sequence numbers , and current [implementation](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/6312).  
- [BIP 112](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0112.mediawiki) CHECKSEQUENCEVERIFY, and current [implementation](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/6564).  

In short: BIP 68 changes the meaning of the sequence number field to a relative locktime. BIP 112 makes that field accessible to the bitcoin scripting system.

### meeting comments

The BIP68 and BIP112 texts have been updated to match the implementations.  
There's been a call and discussion to rename CHECKSEQUENCEVERIFY on the [mailinglist](https://www.mail-archive.com/bitcoin-dev@lists.linuxfoundation.org/msg02876.html).  
btcdrak wants both pull-requests to be merged soon, others feel more hesitant as people seem to only recently started looking at it seriously.  

### meeting conclusion

Merge updated BIP-texts

## Replace-by-fee

### background

Currently when a node sees a transaction that spends the same output it ignores it. With replace-by-fee it replaces the current transaction in the mempool if it has a higher fee.   
This allows for things like spending "stuck" transactions, adding more recipients to a transaction in order to prevent chaining, etc.  

Since there are people that accept 0-confirmation transactions and this would make it extremely easy to double spend them, this is made opt-in.  
The sender can choose to opt-in to replace-by-fee by changing the nSequence field of all inputs.   
This is a mempool policy for the upcoming 0.12 release.

There's a good [FAQ-ish post](https://www.reddit.com/r/Bitcoin/comments/3urm8o/optin_rbf_is_misunderstood_ask_questions_about_it/) on reddit about it.

### meeting comments

petertodd ran some tests with the mempool limiter turned way down and saw no issues.   
It should be technically easy to merge first-seen-safe and full-unconditional as options if there's people who want to write it.  

### meeting conclusion

test and ACK [replace-by-fee](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/6871) (Has been merged meanwhile).

## Participants

    btcdrak         btcdrak  
    petertodd       Peter Todd  
    Luke-Jr         Luke Dashjr  
    CodeShark       Eric Lombrozo  
    sipa            Pieter Wuille  
    jtimon          Jorge Tim√≥n  

## Comic relief

    19:17	btcdrak		wumpus: so no meeting today then?  
    19:17	CodeShark	btcdrak: so no wumpus today then? :)  
    19:17	petertodd	btcdrak: since when do you listen to authority? :P  

    19:22	CodeShark	is there a quorum? or can we meet anyhow? :)  
    19:22	petertodd	CodeShark: I'm in a mcdonalds right now, working on increasing my influence, as measured by mass...  
    19:22	petertodd	CodeShark: so yes  

    19:49	btcdrak		### 10 minutes left. are there any other topic suggestions?  
    19:50	petertodd	btcdrak: rbf  
    19:50	btcdrak		#topic RBF    
    19:51	CodeShark	anyone have a topic that pays a higher fee? :)    
    19:51	Luke-Jr		this fee is too low, I'm leaving early!     

    19:24	btcdrak		#meetingstart  
    19:24	btcdrak		#startmeeting  
    19:24	lightningbot	Meeting started Thu Nov 26 19:24:40 2015 UTC. The chair is btcdrak. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.debian.org/MeetBot.

    20:00	btcdrak		#endmeeting  
    20:00	btcdrak		#meetingend  
    20:00	btcdrak		oh ffs, not this problem again  
    20:00	lightningbot	Meeting ended Thu Nov 26 20:00:24 2015 UTC. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.debian.org/MeetBot . (v 0.1.4)

## Credits

This summary was originally compiled by Stefan Gilis aka "G1lius" and posted to the [bitcoin-discuss mailing list][meetingsource] with the disclaimer, "Please bear in mind I'm not a developer so some things might be incorrect or plain wrong." and placed copyright in the Public Domain.

[meetingsource]: http://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-discuss/2015-November/000035.html
