---
lang: en
name: 2016-02-18-meeting
version: 1
type: meetings
layout: page
permalink: /en/meetings/2016/02/18/
title: IRC meeting summary for 2016-02-18
---
{% include _toc.html %}

## Logs

- [link to this week logs](https://botbot.me/freenode/bitcoin-core-dev/2016-02-18/?msg=60397355&page=2)
- [Meeting minutes by meetbot](http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2016/bitcoin-core-dev.2016-02-18-19.04.html)

## Main topics

- `feefilter` P2P message
- Reorg performance of SequenceLocks checks

## Short topics/notes

Note: The meeting was a short one as some developers were participating in the
Bitcoin Roundtable.

Btcdrak suggested arranging open source licenses of the Jetbrains IDEs for C++
and Python. The maintainer (wumpus) needs to apply.

## `feefilter` P2P message

### background

The concept of a limited mempool was introduced in Bitcoin Core 0.12 to provide
protection against attacks or spam transactions of low fees that are not being
mined. Currently there is a [reject message](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0061.mediawiki) which
allows informing peers about insufficient fees, but only on per transaction
basis. The `feefilter` message allows a node to inform its peers about the
minimum transaction fee rate it is willing to accept so that its peers can skip
relaying nonconforming transactions.

### meeting comments

Wumpus hasn’t looked at the the fee filter so it will be discussed on the next
meeting.

### meeting conclusion

Review *Implement "feefilter" P2P message* [\#7542](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/7542)

## Reorg performance of SequenceLocks checks

### background

[BIP 68](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0068.mediawiki) Consensus-enforced
transaction replacement signaled via sequence numbers.

BIP 68 changes the meaning of the previously unused sequence number field to a
relative locktime.

SequenceLocks functions are used to evaluate sequence lock times or heights per
BIP 68.

Checking sequence locks to determine whether the transaction is valid requires
looking up the heights of all its inputs. In a reorg, as it stands now, this
will require reevaluating the inputs of every single transaction in the mempool.
PR [\#7187](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/7187) attempts to cache
for each transaction the block hash of the latest block containing an input
which had a sequence lock. In the event of a reorg, if that hash is still on the
chain, you know the previously calculated height and time (also cached) are
still valid. This means that ideally most inputs won’t need to be reevaluated.

### meeting comments

There was discussion whether to backport this to 0.12 and 0.11. Due to all the
changes to the mempool in 0.12 it will probably be non-trivial to backport that
optimization to 0.11, which already is way slower.

### meeting conclusion

Review/test *Keep reorgs fast for SequenceLocks checks* [\#7187](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/7187)

## Participants

    wumpus            Wladimir J. van der Laan
    morcos            Alex Morcos
    btcdrak           btcdrak
    paveljanik        Pavel Janik
    sdaftuar          Suhas Daftuar
    shea256           Ryan Shea

## Comic relief

    19:08:51 <morcos> is the topic 7187 now?
    19:09:22 <wumpus> we dont' have a topic yet :)
    19:09:32 * btcdrak makes wumpus a coffee