---
title: IRC meeting summary for 2016-09-22
permalink: /en/meetings/2016/09/22/
name: 2016-09-22-meeting
type: meetings
layout: page
lang: en
version: 1
---
{% include _toc.html %}
 
- [Link to this week logs](https://botbot.me/freenode/bitcoin-core-dev/2016-09-22/?msg=73443433&page=4)
- [Meeting minutes by meetbot](http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2016/bitcoin-core-dev.2016-09-22-18.59.html)
 
---
 
## Notes / short topics

- Wumpus has started using a new feature on github for tracking longer-running [projects](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/projects). 

## Main topics
 
- 0.13.1 release
- alert system retirement

## 0.13.1 release

### background

Bitcoin Core 0.13.0 is [released](/en/2016/08/23/release-0.13.0/) on 2016/08/23. The next point release 0.13.1 will probably include the segregated witness softfork activation logic, among other bugfixes and optimizations.

In [last weeks meeting](/en/meetings/2016/09/15/#release) developers decided to drop PR [#8635][] (Enforce mandatory softfork flags for segwit block/tx) from the [0.13.1 milestone](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/milestone/22) tag.

### meeting comments

Jl2012 suggests not to do PR [#8654][] (Reuse sighash computations across evaluation) in 0.13.1. Everyone seems to agree.
There is some disagreement on the RPC behavior change in PR [#8757][] (Fix issue with conflicted mempool tx in listsinceblock). Since people probably built apps on the "strange" behavior it would make more sense to do this in a major release where it's fully documented in the release notes.

Updates on the remaining pull requests tagged for 0.13.1:

- PR [#8634][] (Add policy: null signature for failed CHECK(MULTI)SIG) has a lot of ACKs and seems ready to merge.
- [#8499][] (Check bad witness and implement several policy limits for segwit scripts) is still being worked on.
- [#8526][] (Make non-minimal OP_IF/NOTIF argument non-standard for P2WSH) needs a few more ACKs.
- Sipa will address the latest nits in PR [#8393][] (Support for compact blocks together with segwit). Roasbeef's scripts are now running and spamming segwit transactions on testnet, if there are any miners pointing hashpower at testnet, can they set "-blockmaxweight=4000000", leaving off any other related params so we get more bigger blocks.

Sdaftuar thinks the [#8279](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/8279) issue (Mempool DoS risk in segwit due to malleated transactions) is sufficiently resolved for 0.13.1

[Btcd](https://github.com/btcsuite/btcd), the alternative bitcoin implementation in Go, will finalize the segwit stuff soon. Petertodds [python bitcoin library](https://github.com/petertodd/python-bitcoinlib) has a good [PR for segwit](https://github.com/petertodd/python-bitcoinlib/pull/112) too. Gmaxwell notes mining software has improved a lot lately on the segwit front. Achow101 notes armory is aiming to have full segwit support the release after the next one.

### meeting conclusion

- Remove PR [#8654][] and [#8757][] from the 0.13.1 milestones, as well as issue [#8279](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/8279)
- Merge [#8634][] after squashing the first and last commits
- Review/ACK PRs [#8393][], [#8499][] and [#8526][]

## alert system retirement

### background

The bitcoin alert system was a way for trusted parties to broadcast a message to all Core clients about critical network problems. It has been removed in Bitcoin Core since 0.13.0 and has been disabled for a while now.

Earlier this month Gmaxwell [posted](https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-dev/2016-September/013104.html) on the mailinglist the desire to complete the retirement of the alert system, which has been well received.

### meeting comments

Gmaxwell proposed these next steps:

- Create a bitcoincore.org or bitcoin.org announcement message.
- send a penultimate alert with more polite text than the COMPROMISED message that directs people to it.
- much later, send final alert.
- hardcode nodes to send the final alert to peers to overcome the lack of propagation.

Wumpus proposes to send the final alert with the 0.14 release.

### meeting conclusion

- Send the final alert with the 0.14 release

## Participants
 
| IRC nick        | Name/Nym                  |
|-----------------|---------------------------|
| sipa            | [Pieter Wuille][]         |
| gmaxwell        | [Gregory Maxwell][]       |
| wumpus          | [Wladimir van der Laan][] |
| btcdrak         | [BtcDrak][]               |
| kanzure         | [Bryan Bishop][]          |
| cfields         | [cory Fields][]           |
| petertodd       | [Peter Todd][]            |
| jonasschnelli   | [Jonas Schnelli][]        |
| CodeShark       | [Eric Lombrozo][]         |
| luke-jr         | [Luke Dashjr][]           |
| Michagogo       | [Michagogo][]             |
| sdaftuar        | [Suhas Daftuar][]         |
| BlueMatt        | [Matt Corallo][]          |
| achow101        | [Andrew Chow][]           |
| instagibbs      | [Gregory Sanders][]       |
| jtimon          | [Jorge Tim√≥n][]           |
| roasbeef        | [Olaoluwa Osuntokun][]    |
| paveljanik      | [Pavel Janik][]           |

## Disclaimer
 
This summary was compiled without input from any of the participants in the discussion, so any errors are the fault of the summary author and not the discussion participants.

[#8654]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/8654
[#8635]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/8635
[#8634]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/8634
[#8499]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/8499
[#8526]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/8526
[#8393]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/8393
[#8757]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/8757

{% include _references.md %}
