---
lang: en
name: 2016-02-25-meeting
version: 1
type: meetings
layout: page
permalink: /en/meetings/2016/02/25/
title: IRC meeting summary for 2016-02-25
---
{% include _toc.html %}

## Logs

- [link to this week logs](https://botbot.me/freenode/bitcoin-core-dev/2016-02-25/?msg=60913933&page=2)
- [Meeting minutes by meetbot](http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2016/bitcoin-core-dev.2016-02-25-19.01.html)

## Main topics

- BIP 68/112/113 rollout
- Forthcoming OpenSSL releases

## Short topics

PR [\#7542](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/7542) *Implement “feefilter” P2P message* hasn’t been reviewed yet.

## BIP 68/112/113 rollout

### background

[BIP 68](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0068.mediawiki) Consensus-enforced
transaction replacement signaled via sequence numbers.  
[BIP 112](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0112.mediawiki) CHECKSEQUENCEVERIFY.  
[BIP 113](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0113.mediawiki) Median
time-past as endpoint for lock-time calculations.

In short: BIP 68 changes the meaning of the sequence number field to a relative
locktime. BIP 112 makes that field accessible to the bitcoin scripting system.
BIP 113 enables the usage of GetMedianTimePast (the median of the previous 11
blocks) from the prior block in lock-time transactions.

[BIP 9](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0009.mediawiki)
Version bits with timeout and delay.

Currently softforks have been done by the IsSuperMajority mechanism, meaning
when 95% of the last 1000 blocks have a version number higher than X the fork is
deployed. A new way of doing this is currently being worked on and that uses all
bits of the version number, appropriately being called versionbits. So instead
of a fork happening when the version is larger than (for example) 00000000011
(3), a fork happens when (for example) the 3rd bit is up (so 00100000011). This
way softforks can be deployed simultaneous and independent of each other.

### meeting comments

A nontrivial amount of hashrate is voting using block version numbers for
[BIP 109](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0109.mediawiki), which
complicates deployment using IsSuperMajority. This could also delay Segregated
Witness deployment. Therefore versionbits are likely to be used.

BIP 68 requires v2 transactions, which aren’t currently relayed.

A significant portion of the hashrate had signaled readiness to enforce CLTV
([BIP 65](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0065.mediawiki))
before any released software supported it.

### meeting conclusion

PR [\#7561](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/7561) will need to be
converted to versionbits.

Review PR [\#7575](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/7575).

The relay policy will likely be changed before softfork deployment.

Talk to the [btcd](https://github.com/btcsuite/btcd) developers about BIPs
9/68/112/113 for feedback.

Send an email to the mailing list about BIP 68/112/113 deployment for any
objections.

To prevent premature activation a “start time” will be defined for BIP 9
softforks. A 1-2 month start time after the expected release date is suggested.

## Forthcoming OpenSSL releases

### background

There’s a new [OpenSSL release](https://mta.openssl.org/pipermail/openssl-announce/2016-February/000063.html)
which fixes some security issues.

Since 0.12 Bitcoin Core uses their own libsecp256k1 for ECDSA signature
verification instead of OpenSSL.

### meeting comments

OpenSSL should be out of the software to the greatest extent possible.

OpenSSL is only really needed for the [payment protocol](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0070.mediawiki)
which is virtually unused. It is suggested to disable it by default and listen
for feedback.

### meeting conclusion

For the time being emergency updates for serious OpenSSL vulnerabilities will
need to be rolled.

## Participants

    petertodd         Peter Todd
    gmaxwell          Gregory Maxwell
    btcdrak           btcdrak
    morcos            Alex Morcos
    sipa              Pieter Wuille
    CodeShark         Eric Lombrozo
    jonasschnelli     Jonas Schnelli
    sdaftuar          Suhas Daftuar
    warren            Warren Togami

## Comic relief

    19:25:30 <btcdrak> wumpus: I would caution any merging consensus refactoring PRs until we get the sf code emerged. It will make backporting to 0.12 easier and easier to verify (basically an easy cherrypick).
    19:26:28 <petertodd> btcdrak: I suggest we buy jtimom a time machine so he can do his refactors in the past :)
    19:26:40 <petertodd> *jtimon