---
title: IRC meeting summary for 2017-11-02
permalink: /en/meetings/2017/11/02/
name: 2017-11-02-meeting
type: meetings
layout: page
lang: en
version: 1
---
{% include toc.html %}

- [Link to this week logs](https://botbot.me/freenode/bitcoin-core-dev/2017-11-02/?msg=93048278&page=2)
- [Meeting minutes by meetbot](http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2017/bitcoin-core-dev.2017-11-02-19.01.html)

---

## Main topics

- Bitcoin Core 0.15.1

## Bitcoin Core 0.15.1

### Background

  Moving to release the latest version of Bitcoin Core and what PRs need to be added to the backports.

### Meeting Comments

- Version was changed from 0.15.0.2 to 0.15.1 for this release.  
- Discussion of PRs that are to be added to backports. The backports discussion can be found at [#11592][].
- Discussion of removing OpenSSL from code base finally. Can't be removed due to BIP 70 since it's used to validate certificates for https.
- PRs merged from this meeting
  - Backport PR [#11592][]
  - Merged PR [#11593][]
  - Merged PR [#11560][]
  - Merged PR [#11100][]
- Review Backports and start the RC process

## Comic relief

{% highlight text %}
<jtimon> chaincode conspiracies coming...
<instagibbs> Eastern US powerhouse too :)
<MarcoFalke> instagibbs: It's not retroactive ;)
<morcos> instagibbs: which ones, the ones we do ourselves or the ones under our blockstream contract?
<jonasschnelli> ChainCodeLabs marketing departure must confront now with new ChainCode Core conspiracy
<instagibbs> morcos, one and the same, right?
<jtimon> BlueMatt: lol
<achow101> chaincore
<jonasschnelli> heh
<cfields> BlockChain
wait...
<sdaftuar> lol
<gmaxwell> lol
<morcos> took you long enough
<jonasschnelli> lol
<sipa> ChainStream

{% endhighlight %}

## Participants

| IRC nick        | Name/Nym                  |
|-----------------|---------------------------|
| cfields         | [Cory Fields][]           |
| luke-jr         | [Luke Dashjr][]           |
| Sipa            | [Pieter Wuille][]           |
| gmaxwell        | [Gregory Maxwell][]       |
| wumpus          | [Wladimir van der Laan][] |
| morcos          | [Alex Morcos][]           |
| sdaftuar        | [Suhas Daftuar][]         |
| BlueMatt        | [Matt Corallo][]          |
| achow101        | [Andrew Chow][]           |
| meshcollider    | [Samuel Dobson][]         |
| jonasschnelli   | [Jonas Schnelli][]         |
| jtimon           | [Jorge Tim√≥n][]          |
| MarcoFalke       | [Marco Falke][]          |
| instagibbs       | [Gregory Sanders][]          |

## Disclaimer

This summary was compiled without input from any of the participants in the discussion, so any errors are the fault of the summary author and not the discussion participants.

[#11592]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/11592
[#11593]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/11593
[#11560]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/11560
[#11100]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/11000

{% include references.md %}

Authored by: Ivan Quiles
