---
title: IRC meeting summary for 2017-04-06
permalink: /en/meetings/2017/04/06/
name: 2017-04-06-meeting
type: meetings
layout: page
lang: en
version: 1
---
{% include _toc.html %}
 
- [Link to this week logs](https://botbot.me/freenode/bitcoin-core-dev/2017-04-06/?msg=83564974&page=2)
- [Meeting minutes by meetbot](http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2017/bitcoin-core-dev.2017-04-06-19.02.html)
 
---

## Notes / short topics

- A lot of developers where present at the Financial Cryptography conference, making this a short meeting.
- 0.14.1 RC1 was tagged and gitian builds are in progress
- Jtimon added more ideas to the [TODO list][#7829] aimed at developers new to the Bitcoin Core project to get familiar with contributing to Bitcoin Core.

## Main topics

- Work in progress
- High priority review

## Work in progress

### background

Since a lot of developers where missing or not focussed on the meeting because of the Financial Cryptography conference Sdaftuar asked if anyone wanted to give updates on what they're working on, to get some overview and conversations started.

### meeting comments

- Luke-jr is working on an UTXO index by scriptPubKey for sweeping purposes. Wumpus points out PR [#9806][] is trying to do the same.
- Jonasschnelli is working on a Bloom Filter Digest which he'd like to have for the hybrid full block SPV mode talked about in [2016-11-10 meeting](/en/meetings/2016/11/10/#hybrid-spv).
- Sipa has been working on things related to database/cache/flush/memory usage.
- Morcos is coding and recoding fee estimation for months, but it's much more complicated and will be hard to review.
- Sdaftuar has been working on CreateNewBlock, introducing a way to skip recently added transactions if the block income for doing so is below some theshold.
- Jtimon worked on some refactoring PRs, like [#9494][], [#10119][] and [#101118][]

## High priority review

[High priority review project](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/projects/8) on Github.

Jtimon thinks PR [#7729][] (introduce 'label' API for wallet) should be added to the priority list, as it blocks the removal of the accounts system. Wumpus agrees, but notes people should review the API, not the code, as that is outdated by now.

## Comic relief

{% highlight text %}
sipa               it seems we boosted the speed of the meeting significantly
warren             overt boost even
jonasschnelli      boost(ed),.. I can't read that word anymore
jeremyrubin        A [sic] efficiency gain
jcorgan            ima go patent it
wumpus             isn't meeting speed boost patented?
{% endhighlight %}

## Participants
 
| IRC nick        | Name/Nym                  |
|-----------------|---------------------------|
| wumpus          | [Wladimir van der Laan][] |
| jonasschnelli   | [Jonas Schnelli][]        |
| sipa            | [Pieter Wuille][]         |
| jtimon          | [Jorge Tim√≥n][]           |
| cfields         | [Cory Fields][]           |
| jeremyrubin     | [Jeremy Rubin][]          |
| sdaftuar        | [Suhas Daftuar][]         |
| morcos          | [Alex Morcos][]           |
| luke-jr         | [Luke Dashjr][]           |
| warren          | [Warren Togami][]         |
| jcorgan         | [Johnathan Corgan][]      |
| btcdrak         | [BtcDrak][]               |
| CodeShark       | [Eric Lombrozo][]         |
| kanzure         | [Bryan Bishop][]          |

## Disclaimer
 
This summary was compiled without input from any of the participants in the discussion, so any errors are the fault of the summary author and not the discussion participants.

[#7829]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/7829
[#10118]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/10118
[#10119]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/10119
[#7729]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/7729
[#9806]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/9806
[#9494]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/9494

{% include _references.md %}
