---
title: IRC meeting summary for 2017-01-19
permalink: /en/meetings/2017/01/19/
name: 2017-01-19-meeting
type: meetings
layout: page
lang: en
version: 1
---
{% include _toc.html %}
 
- [Link to this week logs](https://botbot.me/freenode/bitcoin-core-dev/2017-01-19/?msg=79637992&page=2)
- [Meeting minutes by meetbot](http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2017/bitcoin-core-dev.2017-01-19-19.00.html)
 
---

## Main topics

- Last-minute merges before feature freeze 0.14
- wallet synchronization issues
- Final alert for 0.14

## last-minute merges before feature freeze 0.14

### background

Bitcoin Core 0.14 is [scheduled][#8719] to be released around March 2017. Open pull request aimed for 0.14 are [tagged with a 0.14 tag](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+milestone%3A0.14.0).

### meeting comments

[#9535][] (Split CNode::cs_vSend: message processing and message sending) got some thorough review and would be a great win.

[#9461][] (Improve progress display) is ready and [#9294][] (HD split) needs another review. It has string changes, so it needs to be done before the feature freeze to allow for translations.

Gmaxwell thinks [#9526][] (-blocksonly should disable sharing of mempool with dbcache) should be untagged for 0.14. BlueMatt and Sipa think it's a bugfix and therefor can be merged after the feature freeze.

Priority for 0.14 is solving the nasty remaining issues, like the [wallet sync problems][#9584].

BlueMatt noticed [#9108][] (Use importmulti timestamp when importing watch only keys) needs a 0.14 tag, as it fixes issue [#9034][] which is tagged for 0.14.

BlueMatt is fine with untagging [#9027][] (Unbounded reorg memory usage) for 0.14. It was pointed out we can do a simple fix to address the issue, but there's other issues making it non-trivial to fix it completely.

### meeting conclusion

- Review [#9294][] (Use internal HD chain for change outputs (hd split))

## wallet synchronization issues

### background

Since [#7946][] Bitcoin Core doesn't hold cs_main while syncing transactions connected in a block with the wallet. There have been several issues of which at least 2 remain, summarized in issue [#9584][].

### meeting comments

BlueMatt tried to [fix][#9570] issue [#9148][], but it turned out to be more complicated than anticipated. He recommends [#9583][] (Move wallet callbacks into cs_main (this effectively reverts [#7946][])) for 0.14, and do a set of bigger changes for 0.15. His intend for 0.15 is to move these callbacks into a background thread.

### meeting conclusion

- Review [#9583][] as solution for 0.14

## Final alert for 0.14

### background

The bitcoin alert system was a way for trusted parties to broadcast a message to all Core clients about critical network problems. It has been removed in Bitcoin Core since 0.13.0 and has been disabled for a while now.

The final step in the retirement of the alert system is to hardcode nodes to send the [final alert](https://bitcoin.org/en/alert/2016-11-01-alert-retirement) to peers to overcome the lack of propagation.

### meeting comments

Now is as good a time as any to send the final alert. Given the prior alert there's no need for delays or announcements.

### meeting conclusion

- Send final alert message (PR [#9594][])

## Comic relief

{% highlight text %}
luke-jr         there's a pre-MW PR that's probably ready, but not a prioirty
sipa            pre-mimblewimble?
luke-jr         multiwallet ;)

wumpus          let's just do it
petertodd       wumpus: <insert meme here>

sipa            https://cdn.meme.am/cache/instances/folder963/500x/74859963.jpg

wumpus          ok, any other topics?
sipa            i propose lunch
{% endhighlight %}

## Participants
 
| IRC nick        | Name/Nym                  |
|-----------------|---------------------------|
| sipa            | [Pieter Wuille][]         |
| jonasschnelli   | [Jonas Schnelli][]        |
| instagibbs      | [Gregory Sanders][]       |
| kanzure         | [Bryan Bishop][]          |
| BlueMatt        | [Matt Corallo][]          |
| cfields         | [Cory Fields][]           |
| luke-jr         | [Luke Dashjr][]           |
| wumpus          | [Wladimir van der Laan][] |
| morcos          | [Alex Morcos][]           |
| jtimon          | [Jorge Tim√≥n][]           |
| petertodd       | [Peter Todd][]            |
| MarcoFalke      | [Marco Falke][]           |
| CodeShark       | [Eric Lombrozo][]         |
| btcdrak         | [BtcDrak][]               |
| achow101        | [Andrew Chow][]           |
| gmaxwell        | [Gregory Maxwell][]       |

## Disclaimer
 
This summary was compiled without input from any of the participants in the discussion, so any errors are the fault of the summary author and not the discussion participants.

[#9526]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/9526
[#7946]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/7946
[#9570]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/9570
[#9583]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/9583
[#9594]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/9594
[#9108]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/9108
[#9027]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/9027
[#9294]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/9294
[#9461]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/9461
[#9535]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/9535
[#9584]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/9584
[#8719]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/8719
[#9148]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/9148
[#9034]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/9034
{% include _references.md %}
