---
title: IRC meeting summary for 2017-10-26
permalink: /en/meetings/2017/10/26/
name: 2017-10-26-meeting
type: meetings
layout: page
lang: en
version: 1
---
{% include _toc.html %}

- [Link to this week logs](https://botbot.me/freenode/bitcoin-core-dev/2017-10-26/?msg=92779323&page=2)
- [Meeting minutes by meetbot](http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2017/bitcoin-core-dev.2017-10-26-19.00.html)

---

## Main topics

- Bitcoin Core 0.15.0.2

## Bitcoin Core 0.15.0.2

### Background

  With the upcoming Segwit 2x fork Bitcoin Core 0.15.0.2 will be released prior to the fork with better handling of invalid blocks and peers relaying them.

### Meeting Comments

- Discussion of Pull Requests that need to be merged. Reviewers should review these Pull requests preferably within the next two days.
  - Remove PR [#10593][]
  - Merge PR [#11490][]
  - Review PR [#11560][]
  - Replace PR [#11446][] with [#11568][] and review it
  - Review PR [#11531][]
- Morcos brings up a possible issue with running Bitcoin Core and Segwit 2x nodes simultaneously on the same IP address. gmaxwell points out that this is a
  already a property of the network.
- gmaxwell suggests that a warning mechanism for the chain state database should be implemented too for those who switch from Segwit 2x to Bitcoin Core post-fork.


## Comic relief

{% highlight text %}
<achow101> In other news, I got someone to write meeting notes for the website. we'll try to get through all of the meetings missed too
<wumpus> achow101: that's great news!
<meshcollider> \o/
<gmaxwell> bad news is that the someone is roger ver.
<gmaxwell> :P
<achow101> lol. no
<wumpus> hahahaha
<luke-jr> XD
<luke-jr> achow101: you've checked?
<meshcollider> Comic relief would be the whole meeting notes
<achow101> luke-jr: unless I am blind, I am pretty sure the person writing the notes next to me is roger ver
<achow101> *is not
<gmaxwell> uh oh.
<luke-jr> achow101: maybe on his payroll :P
* gmaxwell imagines the delayed correction coming after a sharp poke to the ribs
{% endhighlight %}

Note the author of these notes is insulted by the above exchange.

## Participants

| IRC nick        | Name/Nym                  |
|-----------------|---------------------------|
| cfields         | [Cory Fields][]           |
| luke-jr         | [Luke Dashjr][]           |
| gmaxwell        | [Gregory Maxwell][]       |
| wumpus          | [Wladimir van der Laan][] |
| morcos          | [Alex Morcos][]           |
| sdaftuar        | [Suhas Daftuar][]         |
| BlueMatt        | [Matt Corallo][]          |
| achow101        | [Andrew Chow][]           |
| jnewbery       | [John Newbery][]         |
| meshcollider    | [Samuel Dobson][]         |
| karelb          | [Karel Bilek][]           |

## Disclaimer

This summary was compiled without input from any of the participants in the discussion, so any errors are the fault of the summary author and not the discussion participants.

[#11490]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/11490
[#11446]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/11446
[#11560]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/11560
[#11446]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/11446
[#10593]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10593
[#11531]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/11531
[#11568]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/11568

{% include _references.md %}
