---
title: IRC meeting summary for 2018-04-19
permalink: /en/meetings/2018/04/19/
name: 2018-04-19-meeting
type: meetings
layout: page
lang: en
version: 1
---
{% include toc.html %}
{% include references.md %}

- [Link to this week's logs](https://botbot.me/freenode/bitcoin-core-dev/msg/99172001/)
- [Meeting minutes by meetbot](http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-04-19-19.00.html)

---

Topics discussed during this weekly meeting included a recurring problem
with GitHub page loads, what pull requests members of the project would
like reviewers to focus on during the upcoming week, poor dependency
separation between some source code files, a design for a lightweight
client mode, and an update on a post-BIP150 authentication protocol with
improved privacy.

## High priority for review

**Background:** each meeting, Bitcoin Core developers discuss which Pull
Requests (PRs) the meeting participants think most need review in the
upcoming week.  Some of these PRs are related to code that contributors
especially want to see in the next release; others are PRs that are
blocking further work or which require significant maintenance (rebasing)
to keep in a pending state.  Any capable reviewers are encouraged to
visit the project's list of [current high-priority
PRs][].

**Discussion:** prior to discussing particular issues, several team
members mentioned that they are having chronic problems loading certain
pages on GitHub, particularly pull requests with large amounts of
discussion as reported in the previous week's meeting notes.  Some
of these pull requests are listed as high priority for review.  GitHub
support has been notified about the issue previously by several meeting
participants, and several more notifications were sent during the
meeting.

As a potential workaround, it was suggested that perhaps the pull
requests with large amount of discussion should be closed and reopened
as new pull requests so that review could continue.  Other workarounds
were also discussed such as using web browsers with either
incognito/private modes or mobile view.

The only PR specifically discussed this meeting was,

1. **Do not treat bare multisig outputs as IsMine unless watched
   ([#13002][])** nominated by Pieter Wuille.  This PR removes the default
   support in Bitcoin Core's wallet for a rare (and rather odd) use of
   multisig, simplifying the wallet in preparation for future possible
   upgrades.  Users of this feature will still be able to manually use
   this type of multisig and migration instructions will be provided in
   the release notes.

## Cyclic dependencies

**Background:** Bitcoin Core is written in the C++ programming language
that allows separating information about how to use a function from the
actual logic that makes the function work.  This separation of
definitions into header (.h) files and logic into C++ (.cpp) files can
make it easier to divide up a project into a set of smaller independent
modules that can be reviewed and reasoned about more easily.

**Discussion:** Pieter Wuille requested the topic, "I was wondering if
we should have a policy against the type of cyclic dependency where the
.cpp files include each other's .h files (but not .h files include each
other).  That's not a cyclic dependency for the compiler, but it does
mean those two modules can't really be used independently and is
generally a sign of bad separation. [...] There are a few open PRs that
introduce them, so I wanted to bring it up here to see if that should be
a PR merging blocker or just a 'try to fix it up afterwards if
introduced.'  I'm fine with either."

Cory Fields replied that "indeed sounds like likely bad design that
should at least be justified in the PR."  Several meeting participants
agreed.

**Conclusion:** general agreement to comment on the issue when
discovered in PRs but not to require the issue always be resolved before
merging, especially in cases of desirable PRs where resolving the issue
could make an already large set of code changes even larger and harder
to review.

## Light client mode design

**Background:** Bitcoin Core operates as a full node, meaning it follows
the *valid* block chain with the most proof of work.  It has been
proposed that Bitcoin Core also provide a reduced capability mode where
it follows the block chain with the most proof of work without checking
whether every block on the chain is valid.  Full node mode requires
downloading every block, but a lightweight mode would require only
downloading every block's header plus some data related to transactions
paying the user, which would be a very large reduction in bandwidth
requirements.

**Discussion:** Jonas Schnelli requested the topic and referenced his PR
[#10794][] that proposes to introduce a lightweight client mode without
integrating it into the wallet.  The proposed code allows users to
disable automatic download of blocks and manually request the specific
blocks that they want with a `requestblock` RPC.  This can be later be
extended by future PRs to allow the wallet to request download of the
specific information it needs to operate.

Schnelli asked, "I'd like to get some feedback about the light client
mode, [in] particular the 'requestblock' design, [whether] that is
something we should follow or drop."  After some discussion, he
clarified, "I'm only interested to know if the concept makes sense [...]
of having a light client mode."

Pieter Wuille said, "the idea of having a client mode---that [absolutely
makes] sense to me---but it heavily depends on how and what."
Samuel Dobson also approved of the concept.

Luke Dashjr only supported the concept of a lightweight client mode as a
step in the process of "building up to a full node in the background."
The basic idea would be that Bitcoin Core could start as a lightweight
client to allow users to begin receiving and spending bitcoins almost
immediately and would then quietly download and validate the historic
blocks necessary to become a full node.

Wuille disagreed, "It's a perfectly valid usecase to have one full node
you run yourself, and then have multiple client nodes [that] connect
exclusively to it.  But lightweight [clients] upgrading to full [nodes]
in the background is also a very good usecase."

Continued discussion focused on the differences and similarities between
enabling a lightweight client mode and splitting up the node and wallet
processes in Bitcoin Core, which is another ongoing effort.

Wuille explained, "I don't think the goal should be separating the
wallet from the node into different processes and then inventing a
protocol between the two instead of just making the wallet run as a light
client.  The advantage of using [the peer-to-peer network protocol] as
communication between node and wallet (which is what you get if you see
wallets as just lightweight nodes) is that it actually [is] modularizing
things: you can run *any* wallet software or *any* node software."
(Emphasis in original.)

Wuille also explained that fully implementing the lightweight client
mode into Bitcoin Core is probably not as big a job as some expect, as it
can "reuse all the existing full node code and P2P [network protocol]
implementation, [and] just [not] do validation."

Final comments on this topic indicated that
[BIP150][]/[BIP151][]/[BIP158][] need to be implemented in the P2P
network protocol in order for a lightweight client node to have all the
features developers would like.  Schnelli is planning to continue his
work towards BIP151 and (not mentioned in the meeting) other developers
are working on the basis for BIP158 support in Bitcoin Core.

Interwoven with the rest of the discussion, Cory Fields mentioned that
one blocker to him being able to review is Bitcoin Core's current
download logic.  "In my opinion, [the logic] is due for a bit of a
cleanup/encapsulation before piling more on."  Suhas Daftuar agreed, and
so did Wuille (who helped write some of the current code).

**Conclusion:** several participants agreed to review and comment on
#10794.  It's possible that more discussion will be needed to convince
everyone that a lightweight client mode is a good idea, but several
participants did seem enthusiastic about the basic idea.

## Update on private authentication protocols

**Background:** BIP150 proposes a protocol that allows two nodes to
authenticate their connections with each other.  As the BIP describes,
this can aid in detecting man-in-the-middle attacks and permit
authenticated peers to access restricted operations.

**Discussion:** Pieter Wuille requested the topic, "As some know,
\[Gregory Maxwell] and I have been thinking about authentication
protocols that have better privacy than [BIP150][].  The goal is to have a
design where one node has one or more private keys, and the other node
has one or more public keys.  The second node learns whether one of the
[first] node's private keys matches one of [its] public keys, but
*nothing* else.  The node with the private keys does not even learn if
authentication was successful, or doesn't learn which keys it was being
queried for."

After some brief answers to questions, he continued: "The idea is that
most of our connections are unauthenticated anyway (and should be
[because they're with random peers on a peer-to-peer network]) so,
whatever privileges you give to authenticated nodes, you just don't give
if authentication fails.  This has a very cool property that you can
*always* run this authentication protocol even if you don't care who the
other party is.  [...] If you always run the authentication protocol
(but if you're not interested in authentication do it with just a
randomly generated pubkey [that's guaranteed not to match]) a [man in the
middle attacker] can't find out what you're doing---they have to assume
you're trying to authenticate."

A [description of a previous
attempt](https://gist.github.com/sipa/d7dcaae0419f10e5be0270fada84c20b)
at designing such a protocol is available.  Wuille notes that the
protocol described in that document is broken but that the design
rationale the document contains remains useful.

"Anyway, turns out this is difficult," Wuille said.  "We have a
protocol that works with one [private key] and one [public key]---which
means you need to run [it] many times sometimes, which doesn't lead to
great fingerprinting properties.  I'm talking to some people to extend
it."

Cory Fields expressed some confusion about the purpose of the protocol.
Wuille clarified that, "the whole point [of the new protocol] is
avoiding having discoverable identities for things that should be
identyless, but sometimes you have a node you trust already (due to
external reasons, for example you run it yourself) in which case you'd
configure an addnode with a known public key [for it]."  The Bitcoin Core
`addnode` RPC currently lets you connect to a specific node based on its IP
address.

Mark Erhardt provided an additional explanation: "In the case that you,
for example, want to connect with a thin client to your own node, the
only valid key you query for is your home node's. If you want to defend
against Sybil, you may query a list of known friends and accept any of
them. If you just want to scare off a [man in the middle], you query for
random keys."

Jonas Schnelli asked, "I guess this protocol would require more
cryptoanalysis then the [existing] BIP150?"  Wuille replied that, "I'm
talking to Dan Boneh about it."  Boneh is a well-known cryptographer and
professor of computer science at Stanford University who has previously
helped research and develop cryptographic protocols related to Bitcoin.

Wladimir van der Laan noted, "It'd be good as a future successor to
BIP150---though I guess this research shouldn't discourage anyone from
implementing BIP150 and having something working on [a] more short-term
[basis]."  Wuille agreed.

**Conclusion:** presumably Wuille and Maxwell will continue working on
the protocol, possibly with the help of Boneh and others.  Work on
implementing BIP150 is encouraged to continue in the meantime.

## Comic relief

{% highlight text %}
<jonasschnelli>  I guess this protocol would require more cryptoanalysis
                 then the exiting BIP150
         <sipa>  jonasschnelli: that's ok, i'm talking to dan boneh about it
<jonasschnelli>  Good!
 <meshcollider>  Dan is the solution to all crypto problems
{% endhighlight %}

## Participants

| IRC nick        | Name/Nym                  |
|-----------------|---------------------------|
| sipa            | [Pieter Wuille][]         |
| jonasschnelli   | [Jonas Schnelli][]        |
| wumpus          | [Wladimir van der Laan][] |
| cfields         | [Cory Fields][]           |
| luke-jr         | [Luke Dashjr][]           |
| instagibbs      | [Gregory Sanders][]       |
| jnewbery        | [John Newbery][]          |
| meshcollider    | [Samuel Dobson][]         |
| jamesob         | [James O'Beirne][]        |
| kanzure         | [Bryan Bishop][]          |
| achow101        | [Andrew Chow][]           |
| sdaftuar        | [Suhas Daftuar][]         |
| promag          | [Joao Barbosa][]          |
| aj              | [Anthony Towns][]         |
| Murch           | [Mark Erhardt][]          |
| jtimon          | [Jorge Tim√≥n][]           |
| ryanofsky       | [Russell Yanofsky][]      |
| phantomcircuit  | [Patrick Strateman][]     |


## Disclaimer

This summary was compiled without input from any of the participants in the discussion, so any errors are the fault of the summary author and not the discussion participants.

[#10794]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10794
[#13002]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/13002
[current high-priority PRs]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/projects/8

