---
title: IRC meeting summary for 2018-06-14
lang: en
permalink: /en/meetings/2018/06/14/
name: 2016-06-14-meeting
layout: page
type: meetings
version: 1
---
{% include toc.html %}
{% include references.md %}

- View this week's log on [BotBot.me][bbm log] or [MeetBot][mb log]
- [Meeting minutes by MeetBot][mb minutes]

---

Topics discussed during this weekly meeting included what pull requests
members of the project would like reviewers to focus on during the
upcoming week, whether Bitcoin Core should optimize selecting which
inputs to spend based on generating transactions that don't have change
(better for privacy and fees) or transactions that only spend
well-confirmed inputs (less likely to result in payment failures), and a
few mini-topics mostly focused on optimizing SHA256d functions for
various computer processor architectures.

## High priority for review

**Background:** each meeting, Bitcoin Core developers discuss which Pull
Requests (PRs) the meeting participants think most need review in the
upcoming week.  Some of these PRs are related to code that contributors
especially want to see in the next release; others are PRs that are
blocking further work or which require significant maintenance (rebasing)
to keep in a pending state.  Any capable reviewers are encouraged to
visit the project's list of [current high-priority
PRs][].

**Discussion ([log][log hipri]):** the following pending PRs were
mentioned this week:

- **[#12136][]:** Implement [BIP174][] Partially Signed Bitcoin Transactions
  serialization and RPCs.  Removed from the list at the request of its
  author, Andrew Chow, who said "It depends on [#13425][]."

- **[#13425][]:** Moving final scriptSig construction from
  CombineSignatures to ProduceSignatures.  Pieter Wuille commented,
  "#13425 is pretty much all of the [Partially-Signed Bitcoin
  Transactions] internal changes that are needed, excluding
  serialization and RPCs."

- **[#13111][]:** Add unloadwallet RPC.  Meeting comments indicated this
  was close to being merged, after a final issue is addressed.

- **[#13160][]:** Unlock spent outputs.  Suggested for the high-priority
  list, but refused because its author already had an entry on the list.
  Nevertheless, Wladimir van der Laan suggested it should receive more
  attention.

- **[#13439][]:** RPC: Avoid "duplicate" return value for invalid
  submitblock.

## SRD [Single Random Draw] fallback coin selection

**Background:** several developers have been working on improving
Bitcoin Core's coin selection---how it chooses which bitcoins (inputs)
to spend---to simultaneously improve privacy, reduce transaction size,
and reduce fees.  The current selection protocol starts with a
Branch-and-Bound (BnB) algorithm that tries to find a match between the
inputs available and the amount being sent.  If that doesn't work, a
fallback algorithm is needed.  A Single-Random-Draw (SRD) algorithm
randomly adds additional inputs to a partial transaction until the sum
of the inputs is equal to or greater than the amount being spent
(including fees).

**Discussion ([log][log srd]):** Andrew Chow requested and introduced
the topic, "I think we should discuss [Gregory Sanders's] point
[here][instagibbs comment]."  The cited comment says, "This new logic
means that non-BnB will be tried more often.  Instead of trying all
variants of BnB (6 confirms, 1 confirm, small chain, etc...), we seem to
be [switching to] trying 6 confirms for BnB, then 6 confirms for
non-BnB. [...]  I prefer the [previous] behavior in master due to
privacy reasons of change-less transactions."

Pieter Wuille asked, "So this is a bit of a question on what our coin
selection algorithm should prioritize: confirmed coins or (immediate)
fee [reduction]?"

Sanders agreed and added, "and privacy.  [...] Change-less outputs mess
with coin analysis to a large degree."

Chow, and perhaps others, have performed simulations of the new
behavior, the behavior from earlier versions of Bitcoin Core, and
various alternatives.  The conversation then briefly discussed those
results and what they implied, with at least two participants indicating
they wanted to see more simulations performed.

**Conclusion:** no explicit conclusion.  Chow is running more
simulations and he, Wuille, and Sanders mentioned discussing them on the
PR when they're available.

## Mini-topics

- Pieter Wuille said, "I have 4 PRs open relating to optimized hardware
  SHA256.  Should I combine them into 1 [PR], or leave like this?
  [#13471][], [#13386][], [#13442][], [#13438][]" Wladimir van der Laan
  was opposed to [#13438][] being combined, and suggested it could be
  merged soon, but neither Van der Laan nor anyone else offered comment
  on whether or not the remaining PRs should be combined.

- Regarding [#13442][], this PR introduced optimized code that initially
  ran slower than before the optimization.  Its author, Wuille, has
  since improved it to be faster, but he notes that it's "very heavily
  compiler dependent: rearranging two lines can have 5% effect on speed,
  or making a constant static, [...] or with particular GCC versions."
  Van der Laan said, "If it becomes faster with new compilers, it's
  good; if slower, not. :)"

- Some brief discussion about managing release signatures for Bitcoin
  Core 0.16.1.

## Comic relief

{% highlight text %}
<ryanofsky> cd
  <cfields> ~$
{% endhighlight %}

## Participants

| IRC nick        | Name/Nym                  |
|-----------------|---------------------------|
| wumpus          | [Wladimir van der Laan][] |
| sipa            | [Pieter Wuille][]         |
| instagibbs      | [Gregory Sanders][]       |
| achow101        | [Andrew Chow][]           |
| cfields         | [Cory Fields][]           |
| promag          | [Joao Barbosa][]          |
| meshcollider    | [Samuel Dobson][]         |
| luke-jr         | [Luke Dashjr][]           |
| jonasschnelli   | [Jonas Schnelli][]        |
| MarcoFalke      | [Marco Falke][]           |
| jnewbery        | [John Newbery][]          |
| kanzure         | [Bryan Bishop][]          |
| ryanofsky       | [Russell Yanofsky][]      |

## Disclaimer

This summary was compiled without input from any of the participants in
the discussion, so any errors are the fault of the summary author and
not the discussion participants.  In particular, quotes taken from the
discussion had their capitalization, punctuation, and spelling modified
to produce consistent sentences.  Bracketed words and fragments, as well
as background narratives and exposition, were added by the author of
this summary and may have accidentally changed the meaning of some
sentences.  If you believe any quote was taken out of context, please
[open an issue](https://github.com/bitcoin-core/bitcoincore.org/issues/new)
and we will correct the mistake.

[bbm log]: https://botbot.me/freenode/bitcoin-core-dev/msg/101130091/

[mb minutes]: http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-06-07-19.00.html
[current high-priority PRs]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/projects/8
[instagibbs comment]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/13307#discussion_r192899180


{% assign log = "http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-06-14-19.00.log.html" %}
[mb log]: {{log}}
[log hipri]: {{log}}#l-15
[log srd]: {{log}}#l-58

{% include link-to-issues.md issues="12136,13425,13111,13160,13439,13471,13386,13442,13438" %}
