---
title: IRC meeting summary for 2018-07-26
lang: en
permalink: /en/meetings/2018/07/26/
name: 2018-07-26-meeting
layout: page
type: meetings
version: 1
---
{% include toc.html %}
{% include references.md %}

- View this week's log on [BotBot.me][bbm log] or [MeetBot][mb log]
- [Meeting minutes by MeetBot][mb minutes]

---

Topics discussed during this weekly meeting included the naming of an
element in transactions spending segwit P2WSH outputs, the time of the
weekly meeting, whether to create the final Git tag for the upcoming
0.16.2 Bitcoin Core release, and an issue with encoding text strings on
Windows.

## Naming of witness version of the P2SH redeemScript

**Background:** [BIP16][] P2SH provides a mechanism where you can
receive a payment to the hash of a script.  When you go to spend those
bitcoins, you include the full script in the spend, where it's called a
redeemScript.  [BIP141][] segwit P2WSH uses almost the same mechanism but 
calls it witnessScript in BIP141.  Unfortunately, there are several
similar terms for ultimately different things that sound similar.

**Discussion ([log][log P2WSH redeemScript]):** Matt Corallo requested
the topic and introduced it: "We have to pick [a term] for
BitcoinCore.org [...] I know people who've called it the witness redeem
script or so, which is also confusing because of P2SH-wrapped segwit,
but witnessScript is confusing given [that the Bitcoin Core internal
variable name] `scriptWitness` refers to the whole witness."

Pieter Wuille suggested, "Perhaps it should be called P2WSH
redeemScript, as it's arguably specific to P2WSH (P2WPKH doesn't have
it, and future witness versions may not either)."

**Conclusion:** No explicit conclusion.  Jonas Schnelli and Gregory
Maxwell argued that the discussion wasn't that important, and the topic
was soon changed.  BitcoinCore.org [issue #581][bcco #581] is
tracking the subject.

## Meeting time

**Background:** as mentioned in the [July 5th meeting][alt meet time],
meeting participants were worried that possibly many Bitcoin Core
contributors, particularly those in East Asia and Oceania, were unable
to attend meetings because of timezone differences.  A poll was
conducted by Cory Fields to find optimal meeting times.

**Discussion ([log][log time]):** Bryan Bishop requested an update on
the topic, which was provided by Cory Fields: "[The] poll closed at the
end of last week's meeting.  Winner: [the] current time.  [Poll
results.][time poll results]"

The current scheduled time is Thursday 19:00 UTC.  The second most
favored time was one hour earlier.  There was some quick discussion
about whether the results were biased towards the people currently
attending meetings, but it was noted that efforts were made to engage
all active Bitcoin Core contributors, including those who lived in time
zones where the current meeting occurs very early in morning.

**Conclusion:** no explicit conclusion.  It did not seem like the
meeting time is being changed at the moment.

## 0.16.2 final

**Background:** contributors have been working on a [minor version
release][maintenance release] numbered 0.16.2 that contains backported
bug fixes and minor features.

**Discussion ([log][log 0.16.2]):** Wladimir van der Laan opened the
discussion, "Release Candidate (RC) 2 was tagged [about] a week ago.  I
don't think any issues came up, so I think it's time to tag final."

Matt Corallo, Gregory Maxwell, Jonas Schnelli, Cory Fields, and João
Barbossa supported the decision.

**Conclusion:** after the meeting, 0.16.2 was tagged.

## Encoding issue on Windows

**Background:** the Windows Application Program Interface (API) has
different requirements for strings of text than the Linux, MacOS, and
\*BSD APIs.  As Pieter Wuille explained during the discussion,
"[Windows] adopted unicode very early, [so] they picked a different
encoding than what the rest of the world eventually ended up picking."
This currently creates problems when Bitcoin Core needs to open files
that contain non-Latin characters in their file names or directory
names.

**Discussion ([log][log win encoding]):** Chun Kuan Lee linked to PR
[#13426][], requested the topic, and introduced it, "is it allowable to
add [a] `wmain` function?" This would add a different `main` function
to Bitcoin Core just for Windows users that could work around
Windows-specific platform problems.

Wladimir van der Laan replied, "I'd prefer not.  I think we had multiple
entry points at some point, with [a] special one for Windows, but this
was cleaned up to just `main()` [...] I think #13426 is too big a
change."

**Conclusion:** After some discussion and quick web searches about what
exactly Windows supports, several contributors said they should take a
closer look at PR #13426 to possibly make concrete suggestions for
improvement.

## Minor topics

- **High priority for review:** instead of the [usual list][current
  high-priority PRs], reviewers are encouraged to focus on PRs and
  issues [tagged][tag 0.17] for the upcoming Bitcoin Core release 0.17.

## Humor

{% highlight text %}
<gmaxwell>  i hate strings
  <wumpus>  so do I, but unfortunately they're needed for path names
 <cfields>  windows strings cause 2x developer hate :(
 <luke-jr>  they string us along?
 <cfields>  luke-jr: i would characterize it that way, yes
{% endhighlight %}

## Participants

| IRC nick        | Name/Nym                  |
|-----------------|---------------------------|
| wumpus          | [Wladimir van der Laan][] |
| gmaxwell        | [Gregory Maxwell][]       |
| sipa            | [Pieter Wuille][]         |
| cfields         | [Cory Fields][]           |
| BlueMatt        | [Matt Corallo][]          |
| ken2812221      | [Chun Kuan Lee][]         |
| jonasschnelli   | [Jonas Schnelli][]        |
| promag          | [Joao Barbosa][]          |
| achow101        | [Andrew Chow][]           |
| kanzure         | [Bryan Bishop][]          |
| provoostenator  | [Sjors Provoost][]        |
| jamesob         | [James O'Beirne][]        |
| luke-jr         | [Luke Dashjr][]           |
| jtimon          | [Jorge Timón][]           |
| jnewbery        | [John Newbery][]          |
| nmnkgl          | [Gleb Naumenko][]         |

## Disclaimer

This summary was compiled without input from any of the participants in
the discussion, so any errors are the fault of the summary author and
not the discussion participants.  In particular, quotes taken from the
discussion had their capitalization, punctuation, and spelling modified
to produce consistent sentences.  Bracketed words and fragments, as well
as background narratives and exposition, were added by the author of
this summary and may have accidentally changed the meaning of some
sentences.  If you believe any quote was taken out of context, please
[open an issue](https://github.com/bitcoin-core/bitcoincore.org/issues/new)
and we will correct the mistake.

[bbm log]: https://botbot.me/freenode/bitcoin-core-dev/msg/102496404/
[mb minutes]: http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-07-26-19.01.html

[current high-priority PRs]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/projects/8

{% assign log = "http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-07-26-19.01.log.html" %}
[mb log]: {{log}}
[log p2wsh redeemscript]: {{log}}#l-16
[log time]: {{log}}#l-46
[log 0.16.2]: {{log}}#l-69
[log win encoding]: {{log}}#l-120

[bcco #581]: https://github.com/bitcoin-core/bitcoincore.org/issues/581
[alt meet time]: /en/meetings/2018/07/05/#alternating-meeting-time
[time poll results]: https://civs.cs.cornell.edu/cgi-bin/results.pl?id=E_a80f9a69d20aab2a
[maintenance release]: /en/lifecycle/#versioning
[tag 0.17]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/milestone/33

{% include link-to-issues.md issues="13426" %}
