---
title: IRC meeting summary for 2018-11-01
lang: en
permalink: /en/meetings/2018/11/01/
name: 2018-11-01-meeting
layout: page
type: meetings
version: 1
---
{% include toc.html %}
{% include references.md %}

- View this week's log on [MeetBot][mb log]
- Meeting minutes by [MeetBot][mb minutes]

---

Topics covered during this weeks contributor meeting included pull requests
nominated for high priority review, the absence of tests for non-HD wallet code
paths, a review of the progress made on refactoring the wallet and the spurious
failures produced by tests run on AppVeyor CI. To complete the meeting,
contributors were encouraged to share the projects they are actively working
on.

## High priority for review

**Background:** each meeting, Bitcoin Core developers discuss which Pull
Requests (PRs) the meeting participants think most need review in the
upcoming week.  Some of these PRs are related to code that contributors
especially want to see in the next release; others are PRs that are
blocking further work or which require significant maintenance (rebasing)
to keep in a pending state.  Any capable reviewers are encouraged to
visit the project's list of [current high-priority
PRs][].

**Discussion ([log][log hipri]):** the following PRs were discussed:

- [#14532][] - Never bind `INADDR_ANY` by default, and warn when doing so
  explicitly by luke-jr

- [#14350][] - Add `WalletLocation` class by promag 

- [#14046][] - net: Refactor message parsing (`CNetMessage`) by jonasschnelli
  
- [#14477][] - Add ability to convert solvability info to descriptor by sipa

- [#13932][] - Additional utility RPCs for PSBT by achow101

- [#14437][] - Refactor: Start to separate wallet from node by ryanofsky

- [#14336][] - net: implement poll by pstratem

## non-HD Wallet Tests

**Background:** Bitcoin Core [introduced support][bitcoin core bip32] for
[BIP32][] Hierarchical Deterministic wallets in 0.13.0, greatly simplifying the
wallet backup and restoration processes. Instead of making regular backups of
an amorphous keypool, a single backup can be made of the wallet’s extended
private masterkey (from which all keys in the wallet are deterministically
generated). Prior to version 0.16.0, users were given the option of disabling
this feature by specifying `-usehd=0`. When this option was removed, so were the
tests for non-HD wallet code paths. While non-HD wallets can no longer be
created by newer versions of Bitcoin Core, they can still be imported. 

**Discussion ([log][log nonhdwallets]):** This topic was suggested by luke-jr.
Because Bitcoin Core no longer creates non-HD wallets, it was mentioned by
provoostenator, achow101 and jfnewbery that non-HD versions of the wallet would
have to be packaged into the test framework. Sipa pointed out the importance of
testing wallet upgrade scenarios (the [failure modes][wallet failure modes] of
a wallet that is being backed up and restored when Bitcoin Core is being
upgraded and/or downgraded can lead to irrecoverable loss of funds).

**Conclusion:** Discussion of the various approaches should be continued in
issue [#14536][].

## Wallet Refactor

**Background:** The Bitcoin Core wallet is actively being refactored. This work
has a number of goals, some of which include: improving upon the architectural
modularity of Bitcoin Core, simplifying the wallet's codebase and introducing
new features. One project within this broader set of goals is the [output
descriptors][] language. Introduced in 0.17.0, this language is designed to encode
the spending requirements of key sets into a single string; this approach to
classifying unspent outputs improves upon the preexisting [isMine][] logic, the
complexities and inefficiencies of which impede the development of more
advanced wallet features (e.g. hardware wallet integration that supports
[PSBT][]-compatible key signing protocols).

**Discussion ([log][log walletrefactor]):** In [#14565][], Sipa continues his work
overhauling the logic of the importmulti RPC to restrict superfluous key or
script data from being imported; this is necessary to support "old style"
descriptor imports that implicitly convert the descriptor into existing wallet
structures ([#14491][]). Sipa will also tackle some pubkey-caching prep work
required to use descriptors instead of keypools. To support native descriptor
imports, the existing keypool/isMine logic must be refactored to sit behind an
abstraction that can be instantiated by old wallet logic or descriptors.

**Conclusion:** Meshcollider will rebase #14491 when #14565 is complete.
Achow101 will rebase [#14075][] on top of #14491 thereafter. #14705 enables a
wallet with --disable-private-keys set to import and fetch pubkeys to/from the
keypool. This aids in the "[disentanglement][wallet stuff]" of watch-only wallets from wallets
that store private keys. Without this PR, a wallet with disabled private keys
will not fetch pubkeys from the keypool. This is useful for hardware wallets
that interact with Bitcoin Core as an external signer; to support this use
case, the keypool must accept the importation and retrieval of watch-only
pubkeys generated by the hardware wallet. Discussion was concluded with the
suggestion that a status update from ryanofsky on his [code][#10973]
[separation][#14437] PRs be saved for the second Bitcoin Core Wallet
Contributor meeting.

**Note:** During the “[wallet stuff][wallet stuff]” session at the
[CoreDev][coredev] meeting in Tokyo, it was proposed that a separate
wallet-focused meeting be organized. On Friday [October 19th][walletmeeting1],
the first Bitcoin Core Wallet Meeting was held. It is scheduled for every other
Friday at 19:00:00 UTC. The second meeting was held on [November
2nd][walletmeeting2]. 

## AppVeyor Failures

**Background:** AppVeyor is a hosted continuous integration service that
provides Microsoft Visual C++ (MSVC) build environments to Bitcoin Core.
Binaries produced in these environments are for cross-platform testing purposes
only.

**Discussion ([log][log appveyor]):** The functional tests run on AppVeyor fail
spuriously. This frustrates some of the contributors. Sipa requests that this
issue be addressed.

**Conclusion:** There is an open issue [#14446][] which details the failure
types.  PR [#13501][] may mitigate one class of these failures.

## What are people working on?

**[log][log workingon]** 

- jarthur: UNIX domain sockets for the RPC API. [Previous
  discussion][unixsocketsdiscussion]. [Open issue][unixsocketissue].
- luke-jr: rebasing his PRs
- achow101: PSBT and hardware wallet integration
- jnewbery: spend more time reviewing wallet PRs by the end of the year
- instagibbs: reviewing wallet PRs and hardware wallet integration
- sipa: private authentication protocol for P2P network. [Previous
  discussion][countersigndiscussion].  [More reading][countersigngist] (note:
  there are known vulnerabilities with the proposed protocol). 
- meshcollider: wallet refactor and review 

## Participants

| IRC nick        | Name/Nym                  |
|-----------------|---------------------------|
| sipa            | [Pieter Wuille][]         |
| provoostenator  | [Sjors Provoost][]        |
| luke-jr         | [Luke Dashjr][]           |
| achow101        | [Andrew Chow][]           |
| MarcoFalke      | [Marco Falke][]           |
| meshcollider    | [Samuel Dobson][]         |
| jnewbery        | [John Newbery][]          |
| instagibbs      | [Gregory Sanders][]       |
| phantomcircuit  | [Patrick Strateman][]     |
| jarthur         | [Justin Arthur][]         |
| kanzure         | [Bryan Bishop][]          |
| gwillen         | [Glenn Willen][]          |
| ryanofsky       | [Russell Yanofsky][]      |

## Disclaimer

This summary was compiled without input from any of the participants in
the discussion, so any errors are the fault of the summary author and
not the discussion participants.  In particular, quotes taken from the
discussion had their capitalization, punctuation, and spelling modified
to produce consistent sentences.  Bracketed words and fragments, as well
as background narratives and exposition, were added by the author of
this summary and may have accidentally changed the meaning of some
sentences.  If you believe any quote was taken out of context, please
[open an issue][] and we will correct the mistake.

[current high-priority PRs]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/projects/8
[open an issue]: https://github.com/bitcoin-core/bitcoincore.org/issues/new

[mb minutes]: http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-11-01-19.04.html
{% assign log = "http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-11-01-19.04.log.html" %}
[mb log]: {{log}}
[log hipri]: {{log}}#l-16
[log nonhdwallets]: {{log}}#l-56
[log walletrefactor]: {{log}}#l-86
[log appveyor]: {{log}}#l-131
[log workingon]: {{log}}#l-151

[bitcoin core bip32]: https://bitcoincore.org/en/2016/08/23/release-0.13.0/#bip32-hd-wallet-support
[wallet failure modes]: https://gist.github.com/sipa/125cfa1615946d0c3f3eec2ad7f250a2#segwit-wallet-support
[output descriptors]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/blob/master/doc/descriptors.md
[isMine]: https://gist.github.com/sipa/125cfa1615946d0c3f3eec2ad7f250a2#current-design
[PSBT]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/blob/master/doc/psbt.md
[wallet stuff]: http://diyhpl.us/wiki/transcripts/bitcoin-core-dev-tech/2018-10-09-wallet-stuff/
[coredev]: https://coredev.tech/
[walletmeeting1]: http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-10-19-19.04.log.html
[walletmeeting2]: http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-11-02-19.01.log.html
[unixsocketsdiscussion]: http://www.erisian.com.au/bitcoin-core-dev/log-2018-10-25.html#l-939
[unixsocketissue]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/9919
[countersigndiscussion]: http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-04-19-19.00.log.html#l-200
[countersigngist]: https://gist.github.com/sipa/d7dcaae0419f10e5be0270fada84c20b

{% include link-to-issues.md issues="10973,13501,13932,14046,14075,14336,14350,14437,14446,14477,14491,14532,14536,14565" %}
