---
title: IRC meeting summary for 2018-05-03
permalink: /en/meetings/2018/05/03/
name: 2018-05-03-meeting
type: meetings
layout: page
lang: en
version: 1
---
{% include toc.html %}
{% include references.md %}

- View this week's logs on [BotBot.me](https://botbot.me/freenode/bitcoin-core-dev/msg/99670696/) or [MeetBot](http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-05-03-19.00.log.html)
- [Meeting minutes by MeetBot](http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-05-03-19.00.html)

---

Topics discussed during this weekly meeting included what pull requests
members of the project would like reviewers to focus on during the
upcoming week, whether debug logging should be moved to a separate
thread so that it doesn't slow down certain use cases, whether to produce a
0.16.1 minor release containing some bugfixes and standard transaction
policy changes, and how to allow messages received from other peers on
the network to be processed in parallel.

## High priority for review

**Background:** each meeting, Bitcoin Core developers discuss which Pull
Requests (PRs) the meeting participants think most need review in the
upcoming week.  Some of these PRs are related to code that contributors
especially want to see in the next release; others are PRs that are
blocking further work or which require significant maintenance (rebasing)
to keep in a pending state.  Any capable reviewers are encouraged to
visit the project's list of [current high-priority
PRs][].

**Discussion
([log](http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-05-03-19.00.log.html#l-24)):** 
Specific PRs discussed during the meeting included,

1. **BIP 158: Compact Block Filters for Light Clients ([#12254][]),**
   nominated for inclusion on the list by Jim Posen.  This PR allows
   Bitcoin Core to generate compact indices for some of the information
   contained within a block.  These indices can then be shared with
   lightweight clients to allow them to determine whether or not the
   block contains information relevant to the client's wallet, at which
   point the client can request to download the whole block (possibly
   from a different peer).

2. **[wallet] `loadwallet` RPC - load wallet at runtime ([#10740][]),**
   nominated for inclusion on the list by John Newbery.  This is one of
   a set of PRs that (if accepted) will allow Bitcoin Core to create,
   load, and unload wallets at runtime in the context of the multiwallet
   mode added in Bitcoin Core 0.15.0.

3. **UI: Support wallets loaded dynamically ([#13097][]),** nominated for
   inclusion on the list by Joao Barbosa.  Built on top of the
   previously-mentioned PR #10740, this provides support in the Bitcoin
   Core Graphical User Interface (GUI) for dynamic loading of wallets.

The issue of some GitHub pages not loading ("unicorns") was briefly
mentioned in this meeting again for at least the fourth week running.

## Delete 0.8, 0.9, and 0.10 git branches

**Background:** new development of Bitcoin Core generally occurs on the
`master` branch of the Git repository.  To create a stable release, the
master branch is git-forked into a stable branch with the name of the
intended release, e.g. for version 0.8 the branch is `0.8`.  The code on
this branch is tested, matured, and released---and subsequent bug fixes
for minor version releases (e.g. 0.8.1) are also made on this branch.

**Discussion
([log](http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-05-03-19.00.log.html#l-61)):**
Marco Falke proposed the topic shortly before the meeting and introduced
it saying, "Those last tagged versions on those branches are EOL [End Of
Life] for more than a year now. The tags can be kept for archival
reasons, but the branches are no longer required. See
<https://bitcoincore.org/en/lifecycle/#schedule>."

Everyone who commented on the matter in the meeting approved.  Luke
Dashjr suggested that if the final commit on each branch wasn't attached
to a release tag (which indicates exactly which code was used for a
particular release) that a tag be added to ensure anyone who needs that
specific code can still obtain it.  Other meeting participants agreed.

**Conclusion:** the branches were deleted shortly after the end of the
meeting.

## Moving logging to a separate thread

**Background:** by default, Bitcoin Core writes certain information
about what it's doing to a log file in case something goes wrong and the
user needs to figure out what triggered the problem.  Currently, this
logging is done as a sequential step in the program's execution so the
next step after logging isn't taken until the logging completes, this is
described as the logging step "blocking" subsequent steps.  Threading is
a way for a program to tell the operating system that multiple steps can
be executed in parallel, which could allow the next step in the program
to start before logging completes (described as "non-blocking").

**Discussion
([log](http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-05-03-19.00.log.html#l-84)):**
James O'Beirne suggested the topic and introduced it by saying, "I think
it may be worthwhile to move logging into a separate thread."  He
referenced two recent PRs related to logging, [#13099][] and [#12970][].

Matt Corallo was enthusiastic about the idea, saying
"ACKACKACKACKACKACKACKACKACKACK" and pointing out that, "this is a
surprisingly high lag-creator for miners, at least for those with
spinning-disk-backed-or-cloud-hosted machines."  He also linked to a
[commit](https://github.com/bitcoinfibre/bitcoinfibre/commit/6b6a3aef0663775b63bac7d0aa07ec5fc4eb9fc9)
for his project Bitcoin FIBRE (a software fork of Bitcoin Core not used
for consensus enforcement) that implements basic threading for logging.

Several other developers supported the idea and discussion focused
around the best way to implement the behavior and, in particular,
how to ensure that if something does go wrong, as much information as
possible is still written to the log.

Some participants also discussed how much faster Bitcoin Core would be
if logging was moved to a separate thread.  General opinion seemed to be
that it could help in some time-critical applications, such as miners
announcing newly-discovered blocks, and would also help when users were
running with optional verbose logging enabled for debugging.  The later
is something often done by developers and which is used automatically by
parts of Bitcoin Core's test suite.  For other use cases, however, it
was not expected to provide a significant improvement.

**Conclusion:** James O'Beirne finished the discussion by saying,
"unless anyone has any objections, I'll start working on a
thread-consumes-from-ring-buffer implementation in the near future."

## 0.16.1

**Background:** the most recent major version of Bitcoin Core, version
0.16.0, was released about two months ago.  Often after a release, bugs
affecting that release are fixed and certain new features are considered
to be important enough to [backport][] to that release, resulting in a
new minor release.

**Discussion
([log](http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-05-03-19.00.log.html#l-188)):**
Matt Corallo request the topic and introduced it, "for those who weren't
paying attention, \[Jesse Cohen] found some particularly novel races in
block handling in [#13092][].  Because they're threading issues, they
almost certainly won't effect anyone except submitblock users, i.e. miners,
and only [in] rare races [cases?] but, still, I think given that and
some of the other various fixes we've had, it may be worth backporting."

The cited issue, #13092, is an analysis by Suhas Daftuar of an issue
uncovered by integration tests Cohen wrote in PR [#13023][].  In
the worst case, a miner could think that they've send a newly-found
block to the network using the `submitblock` RPC only to discover that
Bitcoin Core silently ignored the block because of a [race condition][],
a situation where the program executed steps in a different order than
the programmer expected.  Cohen's tests uncover this issue
because they create several test blocks (with no proof of work) in a
very short period of time.  There are almost always larger gaps between
blocks on the main network, so hopefully no miners have been affected by
this bug so far.

Although there's a PR to fix the issue, Daftuar believes additional
discussion is needed in order "to settle on the right fix."
Cohen suggested [#12988][] is a "similar type of bug" and should
possibly be fixed in the minor release as well.

Corallo also suggested that 0.16.1 should include PR [#11423][] by
Johnson Lau to make the `CodeSeparator` opcode non-standard in spends of
legacy (non-segwit) inputs.  Non-standard means that nodes will not
accept transactions with those inputs into the mempool; they will still
accept them if they occur in a block.  This should eliminate the use of
a function called `FindAndDelete()` that has had a problematic history
(see [1][todd-sighash-single], [2][lerner-findandreplace]).  Segwit was
implemented [without a need for FindAndDelete](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0143.mediawiki#No_FindAndDelete)
but still provides the `CodeSeparator` opcode, which NBitcoin developer
Nicholas Dorier has been [using][using codeseparator] as part of a
[Tumblebit][] implementation---so making `CodeSeparator` non-standard in
segwit spends has not been formally proposed.

[using codeseparator]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/11423#issuecomment-333439463

There was some discussion about whether Lau's PR was ready for merge.
It was Corallo's belief that Lau "wanted to add one more policy rule [to
Lau's PR]."  Corallo said he'll contact Lau about it.

**Conclusion:** all participants seemed in favor of putting together a
0.16.1 release to fix the race condition and include the additional
standardness rule.  During and subsequent to the meeting, the various
PRs discussed were added to the project's [0.16.1 milestone][].

## Call ProcessNewBlock asynchronously

**Background:** Bitcoin Core currently processes messages it receives
from its peers on the peer-to-peer network in a single thread.  If it
could be rewritten to use multiple threads, it could process some
messages in parallel, which could provide a performance improvement.
However, because it often receives the same basic message from multiple
peers, this presents a challenge of how to avoid doing duplicate work.

**Discussion
([log](http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-05-03-19.00.log.html#l-234)):**
Matt Corallo requested the topic and introduced it, "PR [#12934][] [is]
certainly not ready for review, but we should maybe have a discussion
about what concurrency across peers is gonna look like.  There are two
main approaches, but both end up requiring similar refactors for the
majority of their work.  In the past I've looked at doing
ProcessMessages() in parallel; in [the previously-linked PR, Jesse Cohen]
moves the validation processing of [transactions and blocks] into a
queue and does that in a separate thread.  In both cases, we end up
building logic to 'pause' processing of a peer until whatever message it
just generated has been processed."

Gregory Maxwell and Corallo briefly discussed which parts of the system
would find concurrency especially beneficial.  For Maxwell, it was
Initial Block Download (IBD) where download of new blocks is delayed
"when connecting multiple blocks at a time (due to out of order fetching
in IBD)".  For Corallo, it would be relaying `gettxn` (get transaction)
requests during connection of a new block received using CompactBlocks
([BIP152][]), "the one big cheapish win left for block-relay-latency
[improvements]."

Corallo then pointed out that concurrency would allow newly-received
data from multiple peers to be simultaneously deserialized into usable
data structures on systems with multiple CPU cores, which Maxwell agreed
could be a nice gain.  They also agreed that the many improvements made to
the code in the past year make it simpler and easier to implement this
type of change.

**Conclusion:** Cohen wrote, "Cool---so, if no strong objections
or concerns with the approach, I'll continue this and come back when
it's more ready for review."

## Comic relief

{% highlight text %}
       <wumpus>  #10740 given me an unicorn though
<jonasschnelli>  has also a unicorn, reload solved
       <wumpus>  yes
       <LukeJr>  unicorns probably have a high street value
     <jnewbery>  not any more. The market's been flooded
       <LukeJr>  shows what I know of unicorn markets
       <wumpus>  LukeJr: yes, I"m trying to farm them and sell them,
                 but I have more now than atoms in the knows universe
                 so you could say the supply is more than the demand...
{% endhighlight %}

## Participants

| IRC nick        | Name/Nym                  |
|-----------------|---------------------------|
| BlueMatt        | [Matt Corallo][]          |
| wumpus          | [Wladimir van der Laan][] |
| gmaxwell        | [Gregory Maxwell][]       |
| LukeJr          | [Luke Dashjr][]           |
| skeees          | [Jesse Cohen][]           |
| jamesob         | [James O'Beirne][]        |
| jnewbery        | [John Newbery][]          |
| sipa            | [Pieter Wuille][]         |
| cfields         | [Cory Fields][]           |
| MarcoFalke      | [Marco Falke][]           |
| jonasschnelli   | [Jonas Schnelli][]        |
| sdaftuar        | [Suhas Daftuar][]         |
| jimpo           | [Jim Posen][]             |
| promag          | [Joao Barbosa][]          |
| jtimon          | [Jorge Tim√≥n][]           |
| achow101        | [Andrew Chow][]           |
| jcorgan         | [Johnathan Corgan][]      |
| kanzure         | [Bryan Bishop][]          |

## Disclaimer

This summary was compiled without input from any of the participants in
the discussion, so any errors are the fault of the summary author and
not the discussion participants.  In particular, quotes taken from the
discussion had their capitalization, punctuation, and spelling modified
to produce consistent sentences.  Bracketed words and fragments, as well
as background narratives and exposition, were added by the author of
this summary and may have accidentally changed the meaning of some
sentences.  If you believe any quote was taken out of context, please
contact us and we will correct the mistake.

[0.16.1 milestone]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/milestone/34
[#10740]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10740
[#11423]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/11423
[#12254]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/12254
[#12934]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/12934
[#12970]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/12970
[#12988]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/12988
[#13023]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/13023
[#13092]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/13092
[#13097]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/13097
[#13099]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/13099
[backport]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Backporting
[current high-priority PRs]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/projects/8
[lerner-findandreplace]: https://bitslog.wordpress.com/2017/01/08/a-bitcoin-transaction-that-takes-5-hours-to-verify/
[race condition]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Race_condition
[todd-sighash-single]: https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-dev/2014-November/006878.html
[tumblebit]: http://cs-people.bu.edu/heilman/tumblebit/
