---
title: IRC meeting summary for 2018-06-07
lang: en
permalink: /en/meetings/2018/06/07/
name: 2016-06-07-meeting
layout: page
type: meetings
version: 1
---
{% include toc.html %}
{% include references.md %}

- View this week's log on [BotBot.me](https://botbot.me/freenode/bitcoin-core-dev/msg/100892716/) or [MeetBot][mb log]
- [Meeting minutes by MeetBot](http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-06-07-19.00.html)

---

Topics discussed during this weekly meeting included a quick update on
the progress of the next maintenance release, what pull requests members
of the project would like reviewers to focus on during the upcoming
week, and finding a better way for Bitcoin Core to internally keep track
of command line parameters.   Also some side discussion about optimizing
code for various computer processor architectures.

## 0.16.1 release progress

*This was not an announced topic, but it was briefly discussed before
other topics.*

Wladimir van der Laan announced the tagging of the second release
candidate for version 0.16.1, asked [Gitian][] builders to generate
signed checksums, and said, "I hope this can be[come] the final
[version] very quickly."

## High priority for review

**Background:** each meeting, Bitcoin Core developers discuss which Pull
Requests (PRs) the meeting participants think most need review in the
upcoming week.  Some of these PRs are related to code that contributors
especially want to see in the next release; others are PRs that are
blocking further work or which require significant maintenance (rebasing)
to keep in a pending state.  Any capable reviewers are encouraged to
visit the project's list of [current high-priority
PRs][].

**Discussion ([log][log hipri]):** the following pending PRs were
mentioned this week:

- **[#12196][]:** Add `scantxoutset` RPC method. Previously on the list.

- **[#13062][]:** Make script interpreter independent from storage type.
  Previously on the list.

- **[#11082][]:** Add new bitcoin_rw.conf file that is used for settings
  modified by this software itself.  Previously on the list.  The author
  of the PR, Luke Dashjr, had some concerns that were discussed as a
  separate topic later in the meeting.

- **[#12136][]:** Implement BIP 174 Partially Signed Bitcoin
  Transactions.  Previously on the list.  Wladimir van der Laan noted
  that this had lots of active discussion in the last week. The author
  of the PR, Andrew Chow, said that it and its [associated BIP][BIP174]
  still needs more review.  Pieter Wuille added, "I've also been
  discussing some ideas for splitting part of it up."

- **[#13111][]:** Add `unloadwallet` RPC.  Previously on the list.  Van der Laan
  said it "should be pretty close [to being merge-ready]."

There was also some discussion of processor-specific optimizations and
tests being written and run primarily by Pieter Wuille and Cory Fields
with several other developers assisting with testing on specific
hardware platforms.  These were related to SSE4, SSSE3, SIMD, and AVX.

## Command line argument mapping

**Background:** as discussed in a [previous meeting][rw conf meet
notes], several contributors are working towards creating a
machine-writeable configuration file that will be shared between Bitcoin
Core's daemon and GUI so that when users change a setting in one
program, it'll be set the same way in the other program.

**Discussion ([log][log cli args]):** Luke Dashjr requested the topic
and introduced it by describing a [recent change][#11862] to how Bitcoin
Core handles startup parameters.  "The change complicates how to
implement [a machine-writeable configuration file]."

Several developers said that they didn't understand the interactions
well enough to comment on the matter, with Pieter Wuille saying, "I feel
like the right people aren't here to discuss that."

John Newbery said the change in question "added really good code
coverage [...], so it should be pretty straightforward to follow."

**Conclusion:** it was suggested that Dashjr contact a developer with
more knowledge who wasn't in the meeting, inspect the currently
available tests, and ideally write more tests to ensure proper behavior
before making any significant changes.  Dashjr agreed, "sounds like
either way I should start with tests."

## Comedic relief

{% highlight text %}
<wumpus> I do not have the capacity to pay attention to
         all PRs in parallel
<promag> really? :P
<sipa> we need to have an AVX2 wumpus
<wumpus> sipa: +1
<sipa> +8
{% endhighlight %}


## Participants

| IRC nick        | Name/Nym                  |
|-----------------|---------------------------|
| wumpus          | [Wladimir van der Laan][] |
| sipa            | [Pieter Wuille][]         |
| luke-jr         | [Luke Dashjr][]           |
| gmaxwell        | [Gregory Maxwell][]       |
| promag          | [Joao Barbosa][]          |
| cfields         | [Cory Fields][]           |
| achow101        | [Andrew Chow][]           |
| jonasschnelli   | [Jonas Schnelli][]        |
| jnewbery        | [John Newbery][]          |
| jimpo           | [Jim Posen][]             |

## Disclaimer

This summary was compiled without input from any of the participants in
the discussion, so any errors are the fault of the summary author and
not the discussion participants.  In particular, quotes taken from the
discussion had their capitalization, punctuation, and spelling modified
to produce consistent sentences.  Bracketed words and fragments, as well
as background narratives and exposition, were added by the author of
this summary and may have accidentally changed the meaning of some
sentences.  If you believe any quote was taken out of context, please
[open an issue](https://github.com/bitcoin-core/bitcoincore.org/issues/new)
and we will correct the mistake.

[current high-priority PRs]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/projects/8
[gitian]: https://github.com/bitcoin-core/gitian.sigs
[rw conf meet notes]: /en/meetings/2018/05/24/#gui-prune-setting-and-writable-config-files

{% assign log = "http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-06-07-19.00.log.html" %}
[mb log]: {{log}}
[log hipri]: {{log}}#l-15
[log cli args]: {{log}}#l-102

{% include link-to-issues.md issues="12196,13062,11082,12136,13111,11862" %}
