---
title: IRC meeting summary for 2018-07-05
lang: en
permalink: /en/meetings/2018/07/05/
name: 2018-07-05-meeting
layout: page
type: meetings
version: 1
---
{% include toc.html %}
{% include references.md %}

- View this week's log on [BotBot.me][bbm log] or [MeetBot (part 1)][mb log1] and [MeetBot (part 2)][mb log2]
- Meeting minutes by MeetBot [part 1][mb minutes1] and [part 2][mb minutes2]

*MeetBot minutes and logs are split into two parts this week because
the initial meeting chairperson had to leave mid-meeting.*

---

Topics discussed during this weekly meeting included what pull requests
members of the project would like reviewers to focus on during the
upcoming week (especially in light of the upcoming feature freeze for
Bitcoin Core 0.17), alternating the time of the weekly meeting, and
reducing the default minimum relay fee.

## High priority for review

**Background:** each meeting, Bitcoin Core developers discuss which Pull
Requests (PRs) the meeting participants think most need review in the
upcoming week.  Some of these PRs are related to code that contributors
especially want to see in the next release; others are PRs that are
blocking further work or which require significant maintenance (rebasing)
to keep in a pending state.  Any capable reviewers are encouraged to
visit the project's list of [current high-priority
PRs][].

**Discussion ([log][log hipri]):** Wladimir van der Laan stared the
discussion by saying, "looks like there is only one thing left:
[#12196][]," which adds a `scantxoutset` RPC method.  He then added,
"reminder that the [0.17 feature freeze][#12624] is 2018-07-16, so in
roughly a week."  After that date, contributors are discouraged from
proposing PRs containing new features for the upcoming 0.17 release so
that everyone can focus on finding and eliminating any bugs or other
misbehaviors prior to release.

With that deadline approaching, meeting participants suggested the
following PRs be added to the high priority list:

- **[#13547][]:** Make `signrawtransaction` give an error when amount is
  needed but missing.  Suggested by AJ Towns and supported by Pieter
  Wuille.

- **[#12458][]:** Enforce that amount is provided for `signrawtransaction` prevtxs.
  Suggested by Towns and supported by Wuille.

- **[#13072][]:** Update `createmultisig` RPC to support segwit .
  Suggested by Towns and supported by Wuille.

- **[#11658][]:** During IBD, when doing pruning, prune 10% extra to
  avoid pruning again soon after.  Suggested by Sjors Provoost.

- **[#13557][]:** [BIP174][] PSBT serializations and RPCs.  Requested or
  supported by Van der Laan, Wuille, Andrew Chow, and Gregory Maxwell.

- **[#13298][]:** Net: Random delays *per network group* to obfuscate
  transaction time.  Suggested by Gleb Naumenko, clearly supported by
  Maxwell, and possibly supported by Wuille.  

- **[#13414][]:** Support Gitlab API in github-merge.py.  Requested by
  r-f, but mentioned as probably not relevant to Bitcoin Core 0.17 by
  Van der Laan.

**Conclusion:** all PRs mentioned above except the last, #13414, were
added to the high-priority list.

## Alternating meeting time

**Background:** the weekly Bitcoin Core meeting is held at the same time
each week, Thursdays at 19:00 UTC.  Converted to local time by AJ Towns
(using northern hemisphere daylight savings time), this corresponds to
the local times:

| UTC   | NYC   | LAX   | Sydney | Tokyo | Delhi | Paris |
|-------|-------|-------|--------|-------|-------|-------|
| 19:00 | 15:00 | 12:00 | 05:00  | 04:00 | 00:30 | 21:00 |

Those times are particularly inconvenient for Bitcoin Core contributors
located in Oceania and East Asia.

**Discussion ([log][log time]):** Sjors Provoost requested the topic and
introduced it with a suggestion, "my suggestion would be something
trivial, e.g. alternate by 12 hours every week."

Some meeting participants had concerns about that time or about the
confusion resulting from alternating meeting times, although Wladimir
van der Laan noted that, "The problem is that the people in favor of [a
different] time will likely not be here now, [so] it's unfair."

Towns suggested "a three-phase cycle of 8 hours ought to make everyone
able to attend 2 of 3 meetings :-/".  After the meeting, Towns would
provide the following map of such a potential schedule:

| UTC   | NYC   | LAX   | Sydney | Tokyo | Delhi | Paris |
|-------|-------|-------|--------|-------|-------|-------|
| 03:00 | 23:00 | 20:00 | 13:00  | 12:00 | 08:30 | 05:00 |
| 11:00 | 07:00 | 04:00 | 21:00  | 20:00 | 16:30 | 13:00 |
| 19:00 | 15:00 | 12:00 | 05:00  | 04:00 | 00:30 | 21:00 |

**Conclusion:** it was ultimately suggested that someone create a poll
to help find which meeting times would be acceptable to the different
contributors, and Cory Fields agreed to manage the poll.

## [Reducing the default] min relay fee

**Background:** Bitcoin Core won't accept transactions into its memory
pool (mempool) unless they pay a minimum fee of 0.00001000 BTC per
virtual kilobyte (vKB), sometimes written as 1 satoshi per byte (1
sat/B).  This minimum fee level was set several years ago when the price
per bitcoin (in USD terms) was about 1/10th what it is now, and so it
may be too high---especially since nodes have recently rarely seen more
than a few blocks worth of transactions in their mempools.

Bitcoin Core also has a separate setting for minimum incremental relay
fee that helps prevent abuse of the replace-by-fee mechanism but which
interacts with the minimum relay fee.

**Discussion ([log][log min relay fee]):** a [discussion on Twitter][min
relay twitter] was referenced that suggested the minimum relay fee
should be reduced or, ideally, eliminated.  Gregory Maxwell said, "our
infrastructure is setup to have a minimum.  The amount of relay spam per
dollar tends to infinity as the fee goes to zero."

Pieter Wuille noted that the "minimum relay fee has limited impact,
because if the transaction rate goes up as a result [of low fees],
dynamic feerate kicks in."  That increases the feerate up to the level
where newly-received transactions are only accepted if they pay a feerate
competitive with the cheapest transaction currently in the mempool.

However, Wuille mentioned that the related incremental relay fee has to
be set to a sane amount to prevent node bandwidth from being abused.

IRC user Booyah mentioned that, "there are wallets like Mycelium that
sometimes miscalculated and when preparing a 1 sat/B transaction, end up
with 0.97.. sat/B actual transaction and can not broadcast it
currently."  AJ Towns confirmed that Xapo had a similar bug and
described why it happened: "the signatures were slightly bigger than
[the wallet] estimated, and [so the] 1 sat/B target ended up at
0.9something sat/B and wouldn't propagate."

Meeting participants agreed that there's nothing to do to fix that.  As
Luke Dashjr said, "if [the minimum relay fee] was 0.5 sat/B, they'd end
up [paying] 0.49."

Dashjr suggested that the developers not make any changes and instead
let users campaign amongst themselves to encourage changing the value.
But Wuille noted that setting the value low has a downside related to
[BIP152][]: "it reduces compact block relay efficiency, though.  Node
operators generally have an incentive to pick the same values as
miners."

Related to trying to develop a design that has no minimum relay fee,
Maxwell said, "Trying to make things work minrelayfeeless is probably
not worth the effort.  There is a bunch of stupid behavior that having a
low but non-zero minimum avoids."

**Conclusion:** Maxwell said, "I'll PR something around halving it."

## Comedic relief

{% highlight text %}
<gmaxwell> probably rather than discussing this here 
           someone should go make some proposals (including 
           times in common timezones).
<cfields> those annoying doodle availability polls handle
          this really well.
<sipa> cfields just volunteered? :)
{% endhighlight %}

## Participants


| IRC nick        | Name/Nym                  |
|-----------------|---------------------------|
| achow101        | [Andrew Chow][]           |
| aj              | [Anthony Towns][]         |
| booyah          | booyah                    |
| cfields         | [Cory Fields][]           |
| clarkmoody      | [Clark Moody][]           |
| gmaxwell        | [Gregory Maxwell][]       |
| luke-jr         | [Luke Dashjr][]           |
| nmnkgl          | [Gleb Naumenko][]         |
| phantomcircuit  | [Patrick Strateman][]     |
| promag          | [Joao Barbosa][]          |
| provoostenator  | [Sjors Provoost][]        |
| Randolf         | [Randolf Richardson][]    |
| r-f             | [r-f](https://github.com/rfree-d) |
| sipa            | [Pieter Wuille][]         |
| Varunram        | [Varunram Ganesh][]       |
| wumpus          | [Wladimir van der Laan][] |

## Disclaimer

This summary was compiled without input from any of the participants in
the discussion, so any errors are the fault of the summary author and
not the discussion participants.  In particular, quotes taken from the
discussion had their capitalization, punctuation, and spelling modified
to produce consistent sentences.  Bracketed words and fragments, as well
as background narratives and exposition, were added by the author of
this summary and may have accidentally changed the meaning of some
sentences.  If you believe any quote was taken out of context, please
[open an issue](https://github.com/bitcoin-core/bitcoincore.org/issues/new)
and we will correct the mistake.

[bbm log]: https://botbot.me/freenode/bitcoin-core-dev/msg/101804501/

[mb minutes1]: http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-07-05-19.00.html
[mb minutes2]: http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-07-05-19.22.html
[current high-priority PRs]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/projects/8


{% assign log1 = "http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-07-05-19.00.log.html" %}
{% assign log2 = "http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-07-05-19.22.log.html" %}
[mb log1]: {{log1}}
[mb log2]: {{log2}}
[log hipri]: {{log1}}#l-9
[log time]: {{log1}}#l-70
[log min relay fee]: {{log2}}#l-24

[min relay twitter]: https://twitter.com/orionwl/status/1014829318986436608

{% include link-to-issues.md issues="12196,12624,13547,12458,13072,11658,13557,13298,13414" %}
