---
title: IRC meeting summary for 2018-05-24
permalink: /en/meetings/2018/05/24/
name: 2018-05-24-meeting
type: meetings
layout: page
lang: en
version: 1
---
{% include toc.html %}
{% include references.md %}

- View this week's log on [BotBot.me](https://botbot.me/freenode/bitcoin-core-dev/msg/100407600/) or [MeetBot][mb log]
- [Meeting minutes by MeetBot](http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-05-24-19.00.html)

---

Topics discussed during this weekly meeting included what issues need to
be resolved before generating the first release candidate for version
0.16.1, whether transaction relay should be delayed a bit more in order
to potentially increase spender privacy, how to store settings set
internally by Bitcoin Core GUI and daemon so that both programs can
access them, and whether Bitcoin Core should add a feature for scanning
the UTXO set even though it might (hypothetically) not store the UTXO
set in a scanable form in the future.

## [What needs to be done for] 0.16.1

**Background:** Bitcoin Core contributors are working towards releasing
Bitcoin Core 0.16.1, a [maintenance release][] that will contain
bug fixes and minor improvements.

**Discussion ([log][log 0.16.1 todo]):** Wladimir van der Laan proposed the topic and
dove right into discussing what needed to be done, which appeared to be
getting reviews on Pull Request (PR) [#13317][].  There was some
discussion about whether PRs not related to 0.16.1 should be
given high priority, which Van der Laan opposed "I think we should focus
on 0.16.1 now; we'll get around to the other high priority stuff again
next week."

Two PRs were proposed for backporting, [#12172][] and [#12431][], but
both were argued against as either problematic or unnecessary.

**Conclusion:** reviewers are encouraged to view [#13317][].

## Random delays per network group to obfuscate transaction time

**Background:** many years ago, when Bitcoin software received a
transaction, it shortly thereafter attempted to relay it to its other
peers.  This allowed transaction analysis organizations to connect to
lots of nodes and assume that the first node they received a transaction
announcement from was probably the node who created it (or, at least,
was one of the first to relay it).  In Bitcoin version 0.2.10, a feature
was added that caused nodes to wait a different amount of time for
different groups of peers before relaying them new transactions; this
caused transactions to spread through the network less predictably to
increase spender privacy.  Subsequent releases have improved upon this
basic feature.

PR [#13298][] describes a possible counter to the above method:
transaction analysis organizations connect multiple times to each node,
increasing the chance that they will hear about a transaction earlier
rather than latter, and therefore increasing the chance that the first
node they receive a transaction from is its original sender.  That same
PR also provides a method to make multiple connections more expensive
for the analysis organization by causing the random delays to be based
on network groups (large blocks of IP addresses) rather than individual
nodes, so that analysis organizations need to get access to specific IP
address ranges in order to obtain the same chance of being an early
receiver

**Discussion ([log][log random relay delays]):** Pieter Wuille requested
the topic and described what he'd like to see: "I want to bring up
[#13298][] briefly [...] It's a possibly significant effect on P2P
transaction relay and it needs review beyond 'does the code work.'  But
it's also just local policy and not something that warrants a BIP [in my
honest opinion].  Maybe there's not much more to say about that, [I'm]
just hoping to get people to think about it a bit."

The possibly significant effect on P2P transaction relay would
lengthening the amount of time it takes a transaction (but not a block)
to propagate from its originating peer to 90% or more of the other nodes.

**Conclusion:** there was no discussion, just a recommendation for
reviewers to visit the PR, consider its effects, and provide comments
with any recommendations.

## GUI prune setting and writable config files

**Background:** Bitcoin Core provides command line options and a
user-editable configuration file (`bitcoin.conf`) but it also allows
users to change some of the same settings in the Graphical User
Interface (GUI).  Currently these two sets of settings are stored in
different places because the GUI can't change the configuration file
(on some systems, it's read-only, and in all cases it may contain user
comments and formatting that an automated configuration editor might
break).  However, this creates several problems, where a user changes a
setting in one place and it either does or doesn't apply in the other
place unexpectedly.  The latest case of a shared setting is PR
[#13043][] adding to a GUI the ability to control the pruning previously
available from the command line and configuration file.

**Discussion ([log][log gui prune]):** Sjors Provoost requested the
topic and suggested three solutions to the problem of where to store
settings shared between different Bitcoin Core programs:

1. "Ignore the problem."  Continue with the current system.

2. "Go the writable config file route."  (Discussion goes into more
   detail later.)

3. "Interpret a lack of `prune=` setting differently."  Give an option
   specified in a configuration file precedence over an option
   configured in the GUI.

Provoost added, "if we go for [option] 2, then I'd like to nominate
[PR]&#32;[#11082][] for priority review."   That PR adds a new
`bitcoin_rw.conf` file for settings modified by the software.  Unlike
the Qt settings, the file can be shared between both Bitcoin Core's
daemon and GUI, and the file would be explicitly marked as not intended
to support comments, whitespace-based formatting, and other conveniences
for human editing.

Jonas Schnelli complained, "do we want four(!) levels of configuration?
Conf[iguration file] <-> startup [command line interface parameters] <->
Qt Settings <-> level 4 [`bitcoin_rw.conf`]."

Provoost explained, "I'd also like to get rid of Qt settings completely
[...] I wrote a migration away from QTSettings [in PR]&#32;[#12833][]."
Schnelli was satisfied by this option and said, "thanks [Provoost] for
working on that!"

Gregory Sanders suggested the "user could, by and large, be migrated
over to the [`bitcoin_rw.conf`] unless they have a need for read-only."
Wladimir van der Laan argued against this, "well, the `bitcoin.conf` is
for human editing; the [`bitcoin_rw.conf`] is machine writable, all
comments will be discarded, etc..."

**Conclusion:** no explicit conclusion; meeting participants seemed to
be in favor of moving forward with creating a `bitcoin_rw.conf` to store
settings modified by the software.  There was some unresolved discussion
about whether currently-open PRs that modify settings should wait for
`bitcoin_rw.conf` to become available before being merged, or should use
the existing sub-optimal Qt Settings mechanism.

## ScanTxOutSet RPC command

**Background:** The Bitcoin Core software maintains a [key-value
database][] of every Unspent Transaction Output (UTXO)---that is, every
spendable group of bitcoins and the conditions that need to be fulfilled
in order to spend them.  The database is not designed for access by more
than one program at once and is not API stable, meaning other programs
can't easily read from it, and so there's currently no convenient way
for other programs to retrieve information from the UTXO set.

**Discussion ([log][log scantxoutset]):** Jonas Schnelli requested the
topic and introduced it: "[Pieter Wuille] raised concerns about the
`scantxoutset` command [proposed in PR #12196]. Before continuing on
[PR]&#32;[#12196][], we may want to discuss if it makes sense[...].  The scan
functionality allows UTXO sweeping (`rawsweeptransaction`) with no block
scanning.  You can pass in *n* pubkeys/addresses, or even [HD wallet
extended public keys] with a lookup window, and it gives you back all
unspent [outputs] (and even a rawsweeptransaction to a single address)."

Wuille described his concerns, "I just mentioned that we preferably
don't commit to having functionality that's hard to maintain in the
future.  [For example, in a possible future with the]&#32;[UHF model][],
implementing a scan of the UTXO set without indexes requires going
through the block chain."  *[Note: what's labeled in the discussion as
"UHF" is elsewhere called "UHS"; see [link][UHF model].]*

Johnathan Corgan suggested, "If we want to encourage people to treat
bitcoind as the 'ground truth', instead of baking up their own stuff,
giving them easier access to the 'database' would help."

Wuille conceded that the issue was "less a concern [because it's easier
to] add optional indexes now with [Jim Posen's] background index work.
Before, new indexes always required ugly hacks all over the validation
code."

**Conclusion:** "this is turning into a philosophical discussion,"
remarked Wuille near the end of the discussion.  There was no explicit
conclusion, but it seemed that if a `scantxoutset` RPC or similar RPC is
added, a warning might be added to the release notes that indicating
that it might require enabling an optional index in the future.

## Comic relief

{% highlight text %}
[...Things start to break...]
     <mquin> [Global Notice] [...] There are ongoing issues with
             services that are being looked into - please bear
             with us
      <sipa> fun.
<instagibbs> err what
    <wumpus> services massacre
   <cfields> irc unicorns...
             let's move to slack!
             (/s)
    <wumpus> :-(
{% endhighlight %}


## Participants

| IRC nick        | Name/Nym                  |
|-----------------|---------------------------|
| wumpus          | [Wladimir van der Laan][] |
| jonasschnelli   | [Jonas Schnelli][]        |
| sipa            | [Pieter Wuille][]         |
| provoostenator  | [Sjors Provoost][]        |
| jcorgan         | [Johnathan Corgan][]      |
| jimpo           | [Jim Posen][]             |
| achow101        | [Andrew Chow][]           |
| MarcoFalke      | [Marco Falke][]           |
| instagibbs      | [Gregory Sanders][]       |
| cfields         | [Cory Fields][]           |
| jamesob         | [James O'Beirne][]        |
| jtimon          | [Jorge Tim√≥n][]           |
| echeveria       | Echeveria                 |
| jnewbery        | [John Newbery][]          |
| promag          | [Joao Barbosa][]          |
| kanzure         | [Bryan Bishop][]          |
| Murch           | [Mark Erhardt][]          |

## Disclaimer

This summary was compiled without input from any of the participants in
the discussion, so any errors are the fault of the summary author and
not the discussion participants.  In particular, quotes taken from the
discussion had their capitalization, punctuation, and spelling modified
to produce consistent sentences.  Bracketed words and fragments, as well
as background narratives and exposition, were added by the author of
this summary and may have accidentally changed the meaning of some
sentences.  If you believe any quote was taken out of context, please
[open an issue](https://github.com/bitcoin-core/bitcoincore.org/issues/new)
and we will correct the mistake.

[current high-priority PRs]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/projects/8
[maintenance release]: /en/lifecycle/#versioning
[key-value database]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Key-value_database
[UHF model]: https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-dev/2018-May/015967.html

{% assign log = "http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-05-24-19.00.log.html" %}
[mb log]: {{log}}
[log 0.16.1 todo]: {{log}}#l-14
[log random relay delays]: {{log}}#l-51
[log gui prune]: {{log}}#l-66
[log scantxoutset]: {{log}}#l-136

{% include link-to-issues.md issues="13317,12172,12431,13298,13043,11082,12833,12196" %}
