---
title: IRC meeting summary for 2018-05-31
permalink: /en/meetings/2018/05/31/
name: 2018-05-31-meeting
type: meetings
layout: page
lang: en
version: 1
---
{% include toc.html %}
{% include references.md %}

- View this week's log on [BotBot.me](https://botbot.me/freenode/bitcoin-core-dev/msg/100659376/) or [MeetBot][mb log]
- [Meeting minutes by MeetBot](http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-05-31-19.02.html)

---

Topics discussed during this weekly meeting included what pull requests
members of the project would like reviewers to focus on during the
upcoming week, when the project should upgrade the codebase and build
system to use the C++14 standard, what design considerations to account
for in an extended `addr` message for the peer-to-peer network protocol,
and how to filter out altcoin nodes claiming to be Bitcoin nodes for
those who host Bitcoin DNS seeders.

## High priority for review

**Background:** each meeting, Bitcoin Core developers discuss which Pull
Requests (PRs) the meeting participants think most need review in the
upcoming week.  Some of these PRs are related to code that contributors
especially want to see in the next release; others are PRs that are
blocking further work or which require significant maintenance (rebasing)
to keep in a pending state.  Any capable reviewers are encouraged to
visit the project's list of [current high-priority
PRs][].

**Discussion ([log][log hipri]):** the following PRs were nominated for
the high-priority list.  All were added.

- **[#13062][]:** Make script interpreter independent from storage type
  CScript (requested by Pieter Wuille)

- **[#13111][]:** Add unloadwallet RPC (requested by Joao Barbosa)

- **[#11082][]:** Add new bitcoin_rw.conf file that is used for settings
  modified by this software itself (requested by Luke Dashjr)

- **[#13058][]:** [wallet] `createwallet` RPC - create new wallet at
  runtime (requested by Jonas Schnelli, but may have already been on the
  list)

## C++14

**Background:** the C++ programming language Bitcoin Core is written in
is defined by a specification and implemented by multiple different
compilers and standard libraries.  Periodically, new specifications are
issued, compilers and standard libraries are updated, and projects such
as Bitcoin Core need to decide when they're going to upgrade from using
the old compilers and standard libraries to the newer versions.  The C++
specification currently used by Bitcoin Core is known as [C++11][]; a
more recent specification is [C++14][].

**Discussion ([log][log c14]):** Pieter Wuille requested the topic and
introduced it: "Given that [the testing and build infrastructure] will
be built on [Ubuntu] Bionic, that may open the door to using more modern
compilers which support C++14."

Wladimir van der Laan referenced the project's tracking issue for the
subject, [#13356][].

Discussion revolved around which operating systems supported which
versions of C++, but also discussed the last time the project changed
major C++ versions, where at least one large miner didn't upgrade for a
long time because they were running an old operating system that didn't
support the new C++ version and were compiling their old binaries.

**Conclusion:** no changes are being made now.  Wuille suggested, "how
about we see after [version] 0.17 branches off, or even later in the
0.18 cycle.  There's nothing we can decide here right now---just
bringing up potential issues is good in advance."

## New "addr" P2P message to support 256-bit IP addresses

**Background:** Bitcoin's peer-to-peer network protocol uses an [`addr`
message][] to allow nodes to tell their peers about any nodes that may be
accepting incoming connections; this allows nodes to find new peers
without centralized coordination.  The current `addr` message only
supports address up to 128 bits, which is enough for legacy IP addresses
(IPv4), modern IP addresses (IPv6), and older-style Tor .onion hidden
services---but it doesn't support newer-style Tor hidden services nor
peers on the I2P anonymity network, both of which require 256 bits.

**Discussion ([log][log 256-bit addr]):** Wladimir van der Laan
requested the topic and said, "I'd like to work on this.  First a BIP,
of course.  [Is there] anything special I should take into account?  My
idea would be to introduce a new `addr` message with more space for the
network address, [...] to support I2P and the new TorV3 hidden
services."

Luke Dashjr suggested adding "8 bits to select a network schema."  Van
der Laan agreed.  Dashjr also suggested adding multi-bit service flags,
but Van der Laan was opposed to that, "I don't want too much scope
creep."

Olaluwa Osuntokun, Pieter Wuille, and others discussed distributing a
node's public key along with its IP address in the new `addr` message.
Osuntokun was in favor of the idea, but others were opposed, saying
that it "leaked identity" and that "most connections don't need [man in
the middle] protection, as there is no identity of the peer they're
connecting to. [...] The issue is being able to correlate multiple IP
addresses belonging to the same node."

Suhas Daftuar asked if the new messages could advertise what blocks the
node was willing to serve to its peers and clients.  This was discussed
without resolution.

**Conclusion:** Van der Laan will write and circulate a proposal for
discussion.  Subsequent to the meeting, he published the
[document][addrv2 pre-bip] and linked to it from tracking issue
[#2091][].

## Seeder hardening

**Background:** for nodes connecting to the network for the first time
and light clients who use the peer-to-peer protocol, several well-known
community members host DNS seeders that distribute a list of IP
addresses for nodes they know about.  Three of the people hosting seeds
were in the meeting: Pieter Wuille, Jonas Schnelli, and Matt Corallo.
Wuille and Corallo are also, separately, authors of software used for
seeding.

**Discussion ([log][log seeder]):** Jonas Schnelli requested the topic
and introduced it, "It seems like most active DNS seeds pass around
ABC/BCash peers.  It's a cat and mouse game, but we could tighten the
screws by checking for a recent block during crawling (expensive) or
avoid protocol version >80000."

Pieter Wuille checked his seeder and found "I don't seem to have many
ABC nodes: thirty in my top 100,000 IPs; thirteen in my top 10,000, and
one in my top 1,000."  Schnelli had fifty-eight in his top 1,000, but he
suggested that maybe the problem he's seeing is the result of a
configuration difference, and several possible configuration settings
were discussed.

**Conclusion:** Schnelli will continue adjusting his configuration in an
attempt to eliminate the peers who don't serve current Bitcoin blocks.
Other seeders may wish to monitor the peers they're serving a bit
more closely than normal.

## Mini topics

- Cory Fields asked, "any update on the GitHub unicorns [where pages on
  GitHub wouldn't load and instead displayed an illustration of a
  unicorn]?  I don't remember seeing any this week, though something
  about my browser must make them rare for me."  Several meeting
  participants replied that the non-loading pages have been fixed, and
  Fields replied, "Woohoo!"

## Participants

| IRC nick        | Name/Nym                  |
|-----------------|---------------------------|
| wumpus          | [Wladimir van der Laan][] |
| sipa            | [Pieter Wuille][]         |
| jonasschnelli   | [Jonas Schnelli][]        |
| BlueMatt        | [Matt Corallo][]          |
| luke-jr         | [Luke Dashjr][]           |
| cfields         | [Cory Fields][]           |
| gmaxwell        | [Gregory Maxwell][]       |
| roasbeef        | [Olaoluwa Osuntokun][]    |
| promag          | [Joao Barbosa][]          |
| jimpo           | [Jim Posen][]             |
| sdaftuar        | [Suhas Daftuar][]         |
| MarcoFalke      | [Marco Falke][]           |
| ajtowns[m]      | [Anthony Towns][]         |
| kanzure         | [Bryan Bishop][]          |
| morcos          | [Alex Morcos][]           |

## Disclaimer

This summary was compiled without input from any of the participants in
the discussion, so any errors are the fault of the summary author and
not the discussion participants.  In particular, quotes taken from the
discussion had their capitalization, punctuation, and spelling modified
to produce consistent sentences.  Bracketed words and fragments, as well
as background narratives and exposition, were added by the author of
this summary and may have accidentally changed the meaning of some
sentences.  If you believe any quote was taken out of context, please
[open an issue](https://github.com/bitcoin-core/bitcoincore.org/issues/new)
and we will correct the mistake.

[current high-priority PRs]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/projects/8
[`addr` message]: https://bitcoin.org/en/developer-reference#addr
[addrv2 pre-bip]: https://gist.github.com/laanwj/4fe8470881d7b9499eedc48dc9ef1ad1
[c++11]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C%2B%2B11
[c++14]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C%2B%2B14

{% assign log = "http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-05-31-19.02.log.html" %}
[mb log]: {{log}}
[log hipri]: {{log}}#l-17
[log c14]: {{log}}#l-14
[log 256-bit addr]: {{log}}#l-175
[log seeder]: {{log}}#l-274

{% include link-to-issues.md issues="13062,13111,11082,13058,13356,2091" %}
