---
title: IRC meeting summary for 2018-06-28
lang: en
permalink: /en/meetings/2018/06/28/
name: 2016-06-28-meeting
layout: page
type: meetings
version: 1
---
{% include toc.html %}
{% include references.md %}

- View this week's log on [BotBot.me][bbm log] or [MeetBot][mb log]
- [Meeting minutes by MeetBot][mb minutes]

---

Topics discussed during this weekly meeting included what pull requests
members of the project would like reviewers to focus on during the
upcoming week, a draft specification for a new [BIP39][]-like seed
format, documenting how Bitcoin Core uses the [BIP32][] HD wallet
standard, an update on progress towards implementing [BIP151][]
encrypted peer-to-peer connections, and discussion surrounding a new way
to describe to wallet software what output scripts they should consider
part of the user's wallet.

## High priority for review

**Background:** each meeting, Bitcoin Core developers discuss which Pull
Requests (PRs) the meeting participants think most need review in the
upcoming week.  Some of these PRs are related to code that contributors
especially want to see in the next release; others are PRs that are
blocking further work or which require significant maintenance (rebasing)
to keep in a pending state.  Any capable reviewers are encouraged to
visit the project's list of [current high-priority
PRs][].

**Discussion ([log][log hipri]):** the only PR specifically discussed
was [#12196][], which adds a `scantxoutset` RPC to allow applications to
search all current Unspent Transaction Outputs (UTXOs) for those that match a
particular address, public key, private key, or HD wallet extended
public key (xpub).

Pieter Wuille suggested that the PR's author, Jonas Schnelli, remove
xpub support from `scantxoutset` for now and Wuille would later PR an
update to `scantxoutset` that adds support for the output script
descriptors described later in these meeting notes.  If Wuille is
delayed in doing so, Schnelli can just add the previously-written xpub
support back in before the Bitcoin Core 0.17 feature freeze.  Schnelli
agreed.

*Note: extended discussion of output script descriptors during this part
of the meeting has been moved to a [separate section](#output-script-descriptors).*

## Cipherseed

**Background:** (Part of the discussion.)

**Discussion ([log][log cipherseed]):** Jonas Schnelli requested and
introduced the topic, "I have a [specification draft][draft bip
cipherseed] for a new seed format similar to BIP39 with some neat
properties and---before sending [it] to the mailing list---would
appreciate feedback."

**Conclusion:** Schnelli said it was "more an announcement than a topic"
and so discussion was deferred until people had a chance to read the
draft.

## Core's BIP32 derivation "standard"

**Background:** the HD wallet specification, [BIP32][], defines how a
set of private keys and public keys (and, therefore, addresses) can be
derived from a 128-bit to 512-bit random seed.  

**Discussion ([log][log core hd]):** Jonas Schnelli requested and
introduced the topic, "It came up today in a discussion [that] Core's
BIP32 derivation scheme is not specified in a BIP.  Some people think
it's vanilla/native BIP32, but it's not, while other [wallets] do native
BIP32."

Wladimir van der Laan agreed "it would be good if the difference would
be documented somewhere."  Luke Dashjr opposed it being a BIP and Pieter
Wuille agreed, with Andrew Chow suggesting that "just documenting the
derivation in the [documentation repository][docs repo] is sufficient."

*Note: extended discussion of output script descriptors during this part
of the meeting has been moved to a [separate section](#output-script-descriptors).*

## P2Plink ephemeral encryption

**Background:** [BIP151][] specifies a method to allow Bitcoin nodes
and clients to send their data over encrypted connections to prevent
eavesdroppers from directly monitoring which particular transactions and
blocks are being transmitted.  This can enhance certain aspects of
privacy, such as by making it harder for someone to determine which
IP address was the first to transmit a particular transaction (maybe
indicating that someone at that IP address created the transaction).  In
the BIP151 specification, both parties to the connection generate keys
for just that connection and that session---destroying the keys after
the connection is closed; these keys are described as "ephemeral".
Since ephemeral keys are not reused, it's not possible to use them to
identify the same node operating on different networks (e.g. Tor) or
after the node changes IP addresses.

**Discussion ([log][log link encryption]):** Gregory Maxwell requested
the topic and opened discussion with a question, "Has there been any
progress towards implementing P2P link ephemeral encryption lately?  I
know we were kinda waiting for some other networking refactors."

Jonas Schnelli said, "Armory has implemented it and has plans to PR it
to Core (not sure how soon and in what quality)."

Cory Fields said, "I've had to put the network [refactor] stuff on the
back burner for now, so certainly don't wait for that.  I'm happy to
help with the implementation [of BIP151].  I was thinking we were
waiting on the authentication stuff."

Schnelli, Maxwell, and Pieter Wuille all agreed that BIP151
implementation shouldn't be waiting on a proposal for authentication.

Further discussion focused on whether or not the setup protocol for the
encryption (the initial handshake) should be made harder to detect and
so also harder to block.  However, Maxwell said, "I think we thought the
benefits [of the approach considered] were too dubious, especially since
traffic patterns will identify Bitcoin peer-to-peer links very clearly.
[...] So I think we're good to implement, and the only changes that
might be proposed would be ones that arose as a side effect of
implementing and benchmarking."

**Conclusion:** Schnelli said, "If no one else wants to work on the
implementation, I will continue then with [my] BIP151 implementation."

[draft bip cipherseed]: https://gist.github.com/jonasschnelli/245f35894f6ff585b3f3d33c6f208991

## Output script descriptors

*Note: this was not a tagged topic, but it was discussed during two
other topics in the meeting.  For easier reading, those separate
discussions have been extracted from where they occurred and unified
into a single topic here.*

**Background:** Pieter Wuille has been working on a [redesign][gist
wallet redesign] of how the Bitcoin Core wallet identifies which
transactions belong to a particular user's wallet.

**Discussion ([log part 1][log out desc scantxoutset], [log part 2][log
out desc bip32]):** As part of his wallet redesign, Pieter Wuille said
that he has been working on a related [design][gist output script
descriptors] for human-readable descriptions of sets of scriptPubKeys
that provides "a general language that encodes all information about how
to spend a whole set of keys with associated addresses/scripts/private
keys/... into one string, including support for multisig etc..."

This supports the proposed wallet redesign by allowing "import/export
[to] operate at the level of those descriptors, instead of individual
keys/scripts/pubkeys/HD [wallet key] chains.  [The] importmulti [RPC] is
already compatible with that design, for a large extent. The entirety of
that idea is certainly not for [the next major Bitcoin Core version,]
0.17, but that doesn't mean it can't be used already in relatively small
scoped things [like] `scantxoutset`."

This lead Wuille to suggest that PR [#12196][] temporarily remove its
extended public key support so that Wuille can allow the new `scantxoutset`
RPC to use the output script descriptors instead.

Jonas Schnelli asked, "how would [output script descriptors] interact
with the keypool, flexible keypaths, and extended public keys?"  The
keypool is a set of keys belonging to the user's wallet; Bitcoin Core
looks for transactions affecting those keys and adds them to the user's
wallet.  Flexible keypaths refers to the [BIP32][] key derivation path
for an HD wallet.

Wuille said that the "keypool goes away [...] In practice, [the
descriptor] contains the expanded pubkeys.  [For] flexible keypath, the
descriptor just contains the path; you can change it to whatever you'd
like (but default wallets would, of course, pick some standard scheme)."

**Conclusion:** Wuille will continue working on output script
descriptors, including a plan to open a PR adding them to the
`scantxoutset` RPC.

[gist wallet redesign]: https://gist.github.com/sipa/125cfa1615946d0c3f3eec2ad7f250a2
[gist output script descriptors]: https://gist.github.com/sipa/e3d23d498c430bb601c5bca83523fa82

## Participants

| IRC nick        | Name/Nym                  |
|-----------------|---------------------------|
| jonasschnelli   | [Jonas Schnelli][]        |
| sipa            | [Pieter Wuille][]         |
| wumpus          | [Wladimir van der Laan][] |
| gmaxwell        | [Gregory Maxwell][]       |
| cfields         | [Cory Fields][]           |
| promag          | [Joao Barbosa][]          |
| luke-jr         | [Luke Dashjr][]           |
| achow101        | [Andrew Chow][]           |
| meshcollider    | [Samuel Dobson][]         |
| instagibbs      | [Gregory Sanders][]       |
| kanzure         | [Bryan Bishop][]          |
| jnewbery        | [John Newbery][]          |

## Disclaimer

This summary was compiled without input from any of the participants in
the discussion, so any errors are the fault of the summary author and
not the discussion participants.  In particular, quotes taken from the
discussion had their capitalization, punctuation, and spelling modified
to produce consistent sentences.  Bracketed words and fragments, as well
as background narratives and exposition, were added by the author of
this summary and may have accidentally changed the meaning of some
sentences.  If you believe any quote was taken out of context, please
[open an issue](https://github.com/bitcoin-core/bitcoincore.org/issues/new)
and we will correct the mistake.

[bbm log]: https://botbot.me/freenode/bitcoin-core-dev/msg/101580174/
[mb minutes]: http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-06-28-19.00.html
[current high-priority PRs]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/projects/8


{% assign log = "http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-06-28-19.00.log.html" %}
[mb log]: {{log}}
[log hipri]: {{log}}#l-15
[log cipherseed]: {{log}}#l-85
[log core hd]: {{log}}#l-92
[log link encryption]: {{log}}#l-149
[log out desc scantxoutset]: {{log}}#l-33
[log out desc bip32]: {{log}}#l-124

[docs repo]: https://github.com/bitcoin-core/docs

{% include link-to-issues.md issues="12196" %}
