---
title: IRC meeting summary for 2018-06-21
lang: en
permalink: /en/meetings/2018/06/21/
name: 2016-06-21-meeting
layout: page
type: meetings
version: 1
---
{% include _toc.html %}
{% include _references.md %}

- View this week's log on [BotBot.me][bbm log] or [MeetBot][mb log]
- [Meeting minutes by MeetBot][mb minutes]

---

Topics discussed during this weekly meeting included what pull requests
members of the project would like reviewers to focus on during the
upcoming week, when to disclose known DoS vulnerabilities for versions
of Bitcoin Core 0.12.0 and earlier related to the signed alerts system
along with the mechanism to initiate the DoS attacks (Nakamoto's alert
signing key), changes to hosting for the bitcoin-dev mailing list, how
inputs are chosen to be included in new transactions by default, dealing
with the loading of new wallets in multiwallet mode, improved private
key backup and recovery, and continuing work towards creating a
machine-writeable configuration file.

## Review blockers [high priority for review]

**Background:** each meeting, Bitcoin Core developers discuss which Pull
Requests (PRs) the meeting participants think most need review in the
upcoming week.  Some of these PRs are related to code that contributors
especially want to see in the next release; others are PRs that are
blocking further work or which require significant maintenance (rebasing)
to keep in a pending state.  Any capable reviewers are encouraged to
visit the project's list of [current high-priority
PRs][].

**Discussion ([log][log hipri]):** Pieter Wuille listed the three PRs
currently on the list ([#13062][], [#12196][], and [#13425][]) and asked
if anyone wanted to nominate additional PRs.  João Barbosa suggested
[#13100][], which adds a menu entry to open a wallet, but it's not quite
ready yet, so Wuille will wait until it is before adding it.

## Alert key [public disclosure]

**Background:** In 2010, someone created a protocol-valid block that
[created over 184 billion bitcoins][value overflow incident].  Satoshi
Nakamoto encouraged users to stop mining and soon published an updated
version of Bitcoin that corrected the behavior in a retroactive soft
fork, but he subsequently added a mechanism to the Bitcoin software that
allowed him to sign "alert" messages that could directly notify node
operators of problems and even, by default, shut down some node
functions that might cause monetary loss.  In Nakamoto's [last
post][nakamoto last post] to the BitcoinTalk.org forum, he wrote,

> "safe mode" alerts was a temporary measure after the 0.3.9 overflow
> bug.  We can say all we want that users can just run with
> "-disablesafemode", but it's better just not to have it for the sake
> of appearances.  It was never intended as a long term feature.  Safe
> mode can still be triggered by seeing a longer (greater total PoW)
> invalid block chain.

Over time, subsequent Bitcoin Core developers steadily deprecated,
disabled, and removed the alert feature, turning it [off by
default][alerts off] in version 0.12.1, [removing it entirely][alerts
removed] in version 0.13.0, hard coding a [final alert][final alert]
into version 0.14.0, and (in November 2016) announcing the [pending
public disclosure][alert key disclosure] of the alert-signing key
created by Nakamoto.  The disclosure was delayed indefinitely upon
discovery of Denial-of-Service (DoS) vulnerabilities related to the alert
mechanism in versions of Bitcoin Core below 0.12.1, as discussed in the
[9 March 2017 weekly meeting][], that affected approximately 2,600 nodes
at the time.

**Discussion ([log][log alert]):** Bryan Bishop requested and introduced
the topic, "I'm thinking of releasing the private [alert signing] key.
[It] would be nice to get that out there and remove that liability.
I'm particularly interested in hearing from others who have good reason
not to reveal the key.  In the year-plus since [planned public
disclosure] was announced, I don't think much has been raised."

Gregory Maxwell said, "All supported versions [of Bitcoin Core] have
[the signed alert system] gone completely, so that sounds pretty good
for a release now---unless pre-0.12 nodes are still popular, and I don't
believe they are."

Luke Dashjr cited his [node scanning system][dashjr addr scanner] to say
that 3% of nodes were running version 0.12 and "0.61% 'other' versions,
which includes everything before 0.12."  Pieter Wuille found similar
statistics using the [Bitnodes scanning system][], which uses a
different scanning method.

Regarding the vulnerabilities related to the signed alert messages in
old versions of Bitcoin Core, Maxwell said, "I doubt we know all the
vulnerabilities.  I know of at least two, but I stopped looking."
Andrew Chow said he knew of three.

The DoS vulnerabilities affect not just Bitcoin but also altcoins that have
copied Bitcoin Core's code and are currently using old versions.  When
the vulnerabilities are disclosed, anyone with the alert-signing key for
an altcoin will be able to execute those DoS attacks.  In discussing
this, Chow said, "[but] if the altcoins have better control of their
alert key, publishing the Bitcoin one and the related vulnerabilities
shouldn't be a problem."

**Conclusion:** no explicit conclusion.  Bishop seems likely to continue
to work towards responsibly disclosing the alert key and (probably)
vulnerabilities related to it.  No one objected to this, although Matt
Corallo did say he thought there was "limited utility to releasing the
alert key."

## Bitcoin-dev mailing list

**Background:** the bitcoin-dev (Bitcoin development) mailing list has
been hosted at lists.linuxfoundation.org for the past several years.

**Discussion ([log][log dev ml]):** Bryan Bishop requested and
introduced the topic: "Linux Foundation is migrating away from the email
protocol and will no longer be hosting the bitcoin-dev mailing list.
There is a migration plan, but it's under investigation still."

There was some brief discussion about current delivery problems with the
list, an expression of hope that existing URLs to old posts remain
valid, and other migration concerns.

**Conclusion:** Bishop will send an email to the mailing list, hopefully
before migration to a new host domain, with additional details once he
has them.

## Coin selection

**Background:** several developers have been working on improving
Bitcoin Core's coin selection---how it chooses which bitcoins (inputs)
to spend---to simultaneously improve privacy, reduce transaction size,
and reduce fees.  The current selection protocol starts with a
Branch-and-Bound (BnB) algorithm that tries to find a match between the
inputs available and the amount being sent.  If that doesn't work, a
fallback algorithm is needed.  A Single-Random-Draw (SRD) algorithm
randomly adds additional inputs to a partial transaction until the sum
of the inputs is equal to or greater than the amount being spent
(including fees).

This week's discussion is a continuation of [last week's discussion][srd
2018-06-14] about the same topic.

**Discussion ([log][log coin selection]):** Andrew Chow requested and
introduced the topic, "I did a bunch of simulations of the
[single random draw] fallback stuff
([link](https://gist.github.com/achow101/242470486265d3f21adab08f65b9102c)).
There are two problems that I see with this strategy: change can be
incredibly small and the mean number of UTXOs in the wallet is quite
high.  The question is whether we can accept these tradeoffs or whether
we need to find a better algorithm."

Gregory Maxwell said, "[If I recall correctly], there is nothing
fundamental about [single random draw] that makes it good for making
[branch and bound] work better, but rater it was the first alternative
\[Mark Erhardt] tried there."

Chow added, "well, and in [Erhardt]'s simulations, [single random
draw] performed reasonably well and was extremely simple.  Though I
guess we may be seeing different results now."

Various additional strategies and their tradeoffs were discussed, but
the topic was starting to become complicated for a short segment of a
time-limited text-only meeting.

**Conclusion:** Chow suggested, "perhaps this coin selection discussion
would be better done in person with whiteboards," ending the meeting
discussion, although Maxwell noted, "that leaves out people who can't
attend."  Presumably discussion will continue on PR [#13307][] and
perhaps elsewhere.

## Multiwallet session persistence

**Background:** the development branch ("master" branch) of Bitcoin Core
includes code that allows users to dynamically load and unload
individual wallets in multiwallet mode.  For example, you can have a
"personal" wallet and a "business" wallet that can each be opened or closed
separately.

**Discussion ([log][log multiwallet persistence]):** Jonas Schnelli
requested and introduced the topic, "I guess it's not ideal that loaded
wallets need to be re-loaded after a Bitcoin Core restart---especially
in pruning mode."

Several meeting participants suggested that this is what the
writable Bitcoin config file (rwconf) is being developed for.  See PR
[#11082][] and weekly meeting notes for [24 May 2018][rwconf meeting
2018-05-24] and [7 June 2018][rwconf meeting 2018-06-07] for background.

[rwconf meeting 2018-05-24]: /en/meetings/2018/05/24/#gui-prune-setting-and-writable-config-files
[rwconf meeting 2018-06-07]: /en/meetings/2018/06/07/#command-line-argument-mapping

**Conclusion:** "Okay, guess rw/config solves this, so /topic," said
Schnelli.

## Bech32x

**Background:** several Bitcoin Core contributors have been working to
create a new serialization format for backing up and recovering Bitcoin
private keys, HD-wallet seeds, and HD-wallet extended private keys.  The
primary goal is to replace the current popular standards of base58check
and BIP39 with a new standard that not only detects errors but can also
automatically correct several of those errors for the user.  Current
ideas for this proposed format reuse some of the work that was performed
to create the [bech32][bip173] native segwit address format, so work is
proceeding under the name "bech32x" (but this may later change).

**Discussion ([log][log bech32x]):** Jonas Schnelli requested and introduced
the topic, "Bech32x currently has the distance 27 [BCH][wikipedia BCH] with
correction to 7 characters, thanks to \[Pieter Wuille].  The idea is now
to have three 'levels' of correction.  [...] Seven characters is not
much more than 5% correction for 512-bit key material [so more is wanted
for that case, at least]."

Wuille offered to provide three codes that user could choose from.
Gregory Maxwell said, "I think it is not good to make it generally user
selectable.  The user *generally* has no way to make a useful
decision---but making the format support multiple codes seems okay to
me, though it might lower the odds that fancy decoders get written
because it'll be more work."

Wuille said, "we can make sure they use the same field and extension so
that the majority of the recovery code can be shared."  Wuille and
Maxwell continued talking about details of choosing optimal BCH codes
for this purpose.

**Conclusion:** the time for the meeting to end occurred during the
discussion and Maxwell said, "will continue later."

## RWConf [writeable Bitcoin configuration file]

*This topic was requested during the meeting but not enough time was
available.  Still, some participants stayed late to discuss it
immediately after the meeting.*

**Background:** as discussed in the [24 May 2018 meeting][rwconf meeting
2018-05-24], several contributors are working towards creating a
machine-writeable configuration file that will be shared between Bitcoin
Core's daemon and GUI so that when users change a setting in one
program, it'll be set the same way in the other program.  A particular
problem with creating the new configuration file was raised in the [7
June 2018 meeting][rwconf meeting 2018-06-07] but the person most
familiar with the subject was not present; he was present for this
after-meeting discussion.

**Discussion ([log rwconf][]):** Luke Dashjr had requested the topic and
introduced it post meeting by asking whether AJ Towns had any objection
to Dashjr reverting one of Towns's commits that changed how command-line
and configuration file parameters were handled when Bitcoin Core is
started.  This would resolve an issue Dashjr was having creating the
writeable configuration file.

Pieter Wuille suggested an additional mechanism and Towns pointed out a
potential problem with Dashjr's proposal related to network
configuration.  However, Towns said, "anyway, I don't object to changing
around the map stuff, [it] was just the simplest way I could see of
getting relatively sane behavior."

**Conclusion:** no explicit conclusion.  Presumably Dashjr will continue
working on creating a machine-writable configuration file.

## Comic relief

{% highlight text %}
<gmaxwell>  I doubt we know all the vulnerabilities.
            I know of at least two but I stopped looking.
<achow101>  gmaxwell: I believe I know of three
<gmaxwell>  Also depends on how you count. :)
<achow101>  that too
    <sipa>  i tend to count using the ring of integers
{% endhighlight %}

## Participants

| IRC nick        | Name/Nym                  |
|-----------------|---------------------------|
| sipa            | [Pieter Wuille][]         |
| gmaxwell        | [Gregory Maxwell][]       |
| kanzure         | [Bryan Bishop][]          |
| achow101        | [Andrew Chow][]           |
| luke-jr         | [Luke Dashjr][]           |
| jonasschnelli   | [Jonas Schnelli][]        |
| Murch           | [Mark Erhardt][]          |
| BlueMatt        | [Matt Corallo][]          |
| meshcollider    | [Samuel Dobson][]         |
| promag          | [Joao Barbosa][]          |
| aj              | [Anthony Towns][]         |
| jnewbery        | [John Newbery][]          |
| instagibbs      | [Gregory Sanders][]       |
| jtimon          | [Jorge Timón][]           |

## Disclaimer

This summary was compiled without input from any of the participants in
the discussion, so any errors are the fault of the summary author and
not the discussion participants.  In particular, quotes taken from the
discussion had their capitalization, punctuation, and spelling modified
to produce consistent sentences.  Bracketed words and fragments, as well
as background narratives and exposition, were added by the author of
this summary and may have accidentally changed the meaning of some
sentences.  If you believe any quote was taken out of context, please
[open an issue](https://github.com/bitcoin-core/bitcoincore.org/issues/new)
and we will correct the mistake.

[bbm log]: https://botbot.me/freenode/bitcoin-core-dev/msg/101362379/
[mb minutes]: http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-06-21-19.00.html
[current high-priority PRs]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/projects/8


{% assign log = "http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-06-21-19.00.log.html" %}
[mb log]: {{log}}
[log hipri]: {{log}}#l-14
[log alert]: {{log}}#l-30
[log dev ml]: {{log}}#l-120
[log coin selection]: {{log}}#l-155
[log multiwallet persistence]: {{log}}#l-219
[log bech32x]: {{log}}#l-239
[log rwconf]: https://botbot.me/freenode/bitcoin-core-dev/msg/101364609/

[dashjr addr scanner]: http://luke.dashjr.org/programs/bitcoin/files/charts/branches.html
[value overflow incident]: https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Value_overflow_incident
[nakamoto last post]: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2228.msg29479#msg29479
[alerts off]: /en/releases/0.12.1/#miscellaneous
[alerts removed]: /en/releases/0.13.0/#low-level-p2p-changes
[final alert]: /en/releases/0.14.0/#final-alert
[alert key disclosure]: https://bitcoin.org/en/alert/2016-11-01-alert-retirement
[9 march 2017 weekly meeting]: /en/meetings/2017/03/09/#alert-key-disclosure-timeline
[bitnodes scanning system]: https://bitnodes.earn.com/
[srd 2018-06-14]: /en/meetings/2018/06/14/#srd-single-random-draw-fallback-coin-selection
[wikipedia bch]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BCH_code

{% include link-to-issues.md issues="13062,12196,13425,13100,13307,11082" %}
