---
title: IRC meeting summary for 2018-05-17
permalink: /en/meetings/2018/05/17/
name: 2018-05-17-meeting
type: meetings
layout: page
lang: en
version: 1
---
{% include toc.html %}
{% include references.md %}

- View this week's log on [BotBot.me](https://botbot.me/freenode/bitcoin-core-dev/msg/100174747/) or [MeetBot](http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-05-17-19.00.log.html)
- [Meeting minutes by MeetBot](http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-05-17-19.00.html)

---

Topics discussed during this weekly meeting included what pull requests
the meeting participants most want to see reviewed, what issues need to
be resolved before generating the first release candidate for version
0.16.1, whether or not the project should leave GitHub, a request for
review for a PR that paves the path towards separating node code from
wallet code, and a potential new P2P protocol message to better handle
relay of unverified blocks.

## High priority for review

**Background:** each meeting, Bitcoin Core developers discuss which Pull
Requests (PRs) the meeting participants think most need review in the
upcoming week.  Some of these PRs are related to code that contributors
especially want to see in the next release; others are PRs that are
blocking further work or which require significant maintenance (rebasing)
to keep in a pending state.  Any capable reviewers are encouraged to
visit the project's list of [current high-priority PRs][].

**Discussion ([log](http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-05-17-19.00.log.html#l-13)):**
PRs specifically discussed included,

- **[#12254][]:** BIP 158: Compact Block Filters for Light Clients

- **[#12196][]:** Add scantxoutset RPC method

- **[#13142][]:** Separate IsMine from solvability

- **[#12979][]:** Make reusable base class for auxiliary indices

In addition, Wladimir van der Laan expressed concerns that the list was
getting quite long.

## 0.16.1

**Background:** Bitcoin Core developers have begun preparing a new
0.16.1 [maintenance release](/en/lifecycle/#versioning) with
bugfixes and backports of important features.

**Discussion
([log](http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-05-17-19.00.log.html#l-65)):**
Wladimir van der Laan proposed the topic and provided a brief survey of
the work that still needs to be done:

1. **[0.16] Further Backports ([#13253][]).**   Needs more review.

2. **0.16.0 bitcoin-qt: "Assertion `copyFrom failed" during launch
   ([#13110][]).**  Van der Laan says he "proposed a fix for [this] and
   it apparently worked."

3. **Assertion failure during rescan ([#12646][]).**  Jonas Schnelli
   suggested bumping, and Van der Laan agreed.  It was retargeted to
   0.16.2.

4. **0.16 Shutdown assertion ([#12337][]).**  Schnelli is investigating
   this.

**Conclusion:** "We just need to finish backports and tag for
0.16.1RC1," said Matt Corallo.

## Trashing GitHub

**Background:** for more than 6 weeks now, the webpages for
highly-reviewed Bitcoin Core PRs on GitHub have frequently failed to
load, with reviewers seeing an illustration of an angry unicorn instead.
The issue has been reported several times to GitHub support by different
people but has not yet been resolved.

**Discussion
([log](http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-05-17-19.00.log.html#l-97)):**
Matt Corallo requested the topic and introduced it:  "It hasn't been
working [...] and I'd kinda like to have something self-hosted with
better review tools anyway, which I know a lot of people wanted."

Pieter Wuille and Wladimir van der Laan suggested that GitLab was an
alternative, which Corallo accepted but noted, "though GitLab seems to
have no better review tools than GitHub."

Suhas Daftuar was concerned that, "it seems to me like it's way harder
to get it right hosting ourselves."  Van der Laan had the same concern,
"Who is going to babysit this, monitor it, and apply security patches,
etc...?"

Cory Fields added, "General NACK: self-hosting issues aside, GitHub's
network effect is too strong [in my opinion].  I can't be the only one
who gets irrationally frustrated when the code I want to mess with is on
BitBucket."  Van der Laan agreed, "Yes, only [large] players like
FreeDesktop can really afford to host on separate infrastructure; for
smaller projects the lack of network effect (and having to register
separately) is bad."  John Newbery also agreed.

Talking about features he'd like to see in a GitHub replacement, Corallo
wished there was a command-line way to "verify, e.g., PGP signatures on
comments."  That way if anyone compromised the repository web service to
forge an ACK on a PR, it could be detected before merge.

Jim Posen and Steve Lee offered to help get more information about
the issue from GitHub.  The Bitcoin Core project is not the only one
suffering from the issue, with Corallo saying "Some other projects were
posting responses they got where [GitHub support was] saying, 'we don't
actually know what change we made that triggered these issues, hold
on.'  But that was three weeks ago."

**Conclusion:** Corallo decided there was too much adversity to the idea
at the moment, so "I'm not gonna spend time looking into it."  Van der
Laan concluded, "I don't think there's realistically any chance of
anything replacing GitHub until someone sets up a feasible alternative
and shows us that it is better."

**Post-meeting:** about a day after the meeting, Jonas Schnelli received
a
[message](https://0bin.net/paste/ViHtKCgPIfW0TMYt#j30mFske0y1EVoVRZCsQqMoYCpoPc3axAV29jkKkznB)
from Ben Balter, a product manager at GitHub, saying that GitHub has
"identified the root cause, and are working on a fix."

## Separate wallet from node

**Background:** Bitcoin Core's full node implementation, wallet, and
Graphical User Interface (GUI) all currently run as a single process
(although the wallet and the GUI can be disabled).  This means, for
example, that if you close the GUI, you also stop the node.  It has been
a long-term goal of several contributors to split these different parts
into separate processes so that they can be operated independently of
one another.

**Discussion
([log](http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-05-17-19.00.log.html#l-234)):**
John Newbery requested the topic and introduced it:  "[#10973][] is a
big PR, but I think it's very worthwhile, [...] but it requires
continual rebase.  [...] I think it'd be great to make some progress on
this one."

Wladimir van der Laan was concerned that the high-priority review queue
is too large: "Oh, no, not more high priority for review.  Is it
blocking anything?  Is it important for 0.17?  Process separation is not
something we'll have for 0.17 anyway."

The author of the PR, Russell Yanofsky, offered to split the first six
commits off to a separate PR so that they can be reviewed independently
of the later commits, reducing the size of the PR and hopefully making
it easier to review.

**Conclusion:** With Yanofsky offering to split the PR and a few
contributors offering to review it in the upcoming week, Newbery closed
the topic.

## Unverified-block-message

**Background:** [BIP152][] compact block relay introduced a
high-bandwidth mode where a node can send information to its peers about
a new block before the node has finished validating that block.  If the
node does finish validating the block and finds that the block is invalid,
but the peers request the whole block anyway, there's currently no way
for the node to tell its peers that it doesn't have a valid block to send
them.  Currently, in this case, the peers will eventually disconnect
from the node for failing to send the requested block.

**Discussion
([log](http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-05-17-19.00.log.html#l-268)):**
Matt Corallo requested the topic and introduced it by describing two
potential solutions to the problem:

1. The node tells requesting peers that it refuses to relay the block.

2. The node gives the peers the requested block, proving it has valid
   block headers (as required by BIP152), but also tags it as
   potentially invalid.

Pieter Wuille suggested that the existing [`notfound`][p2p notfound]
message could possibly be reused as part of implementing the first
proposed solution.

Suhas Daftuar argued against reusing the `notfound` message in favor of
the second proposed solution: "I think notfounds are worse because of
the case where the block might not have been validated either way."
Wladimir van der Laan agreed that a new message should be used "if
there's no specific reason to re-use `notfound`, a new message is much
better."

**Conclusion:** Corallo was still considering the options, but thought
it was "good to ask.  Obviously [the actual solution] requires a BIP and
whatever else."

## Other topics

With just minutes remaining in the meeting, Matt Corallo proposed
a topic titled "Queue drain lock assertions to avoid deadlocks," but
there wasn't enough time to discuss the topic and Corallo said, "I
realize now I should just open a PR and people will see it, [as] it's
kinda knotty to describe."

## Comic relief

{% highlight text %}
<BlueMatt> trashing github
<BlueMatt> or we could switch to gitlab
    <sipa> let's move back to sourceforge
{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight text %}
<sdaftuar> i think we could just add a new BLOKC response type
           BLOCK_COULDBEBAD
    <sipa> 0xDEADB10C
  <wumpus> hehe
{% endhighlight %}


## Participants

| IRC nick        | Name/Nym                  |
|-----------------|---------------------------|
| BlueMatt        | [Matt Corallo][]          |
| wumpus          | [Wladimir van der Laan][] |
| sipa            | [Pieter Wuille][]         |
| jonasschnelli   | [Jonas Schnelli][]        |
| jnewbery        | [John Newbery][]          |
| jtimon          | [Jorge Tim√≥n][]           |
| jimpo           | [Jim Posen][]             |
| sdaftuar        | [Suhas Daftuar][]         |
| cfields         | [Cory Fields][]           |
| MarcoFalke      | [Marco Falke][]           |
| jamesob         | [James O'Beirne][]        |
| promag          | [Joao Barbosa][]          |
| moneyball       | [Steve Lee][]             |
| ryanofsky       | [Russell Yanofsky][]      |
| kanzure         | [Bryan Bishop][]          |

## Disclaimer

This summary was compiled without input from any of the participants in
the discussion, so any errors are the fault of the summary author and
not the discussion participants.  In particular, quotes taken from the
discussion had their capitalization, punctuation, and spelling modified
to produce consistent sentences.  Bracketed words and fragments, as well
as background narratives and exposition, were added by the author of
this summary and may have accidentally changed the meaning of some
sentences.  If you believe any quote was taken out of context, please
[open an issue](https://github.com/bitcoin-core/bitcoincore.org/issues/new)
and we will correct the mistake.

[#10973]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10973
[#12196]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/12196
[#12254]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/12254
[#12337]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/12337
[#12646]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/12646
[#12979]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/12979
[#13110]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/13110
[#13142]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/13142
[#13253]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/13253
[p2p notfound]: https://bitcoin.org/en/developer-reference#notfound
[current high-priority PRs]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/projects/8
