---
title: IRC meeting summary for 2018-04-26
permalink: /en/meetings/2018/04/26/
name: 2018-04-26-meeting
type: meetings
layout: page
lang: en
version: 1
---
{% include toc.html %}
{% include references.md %}

- View this week's logs on [BotBot.me](https://botbot.me/freenode/bitcoin-core-dev/msg/99439716/) or [MeetBot](http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-04-26-19.00.log.html)
- [Meeting minutes by MeetBot](http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-04-19-19.00.html)

---

Topics discussed during this weekly meeting included whether or not
"high priority for review" pull requests are getting enough review, what
pull requests members of the project would like reviewers to focus on
during the upcoming week, what to do with a particular parameter to the
`bumpfee` RPC in an upgrade of that RPC, and whether or not to remove
Bitcoin Core's disabled-by-default "safe mode".

## High priority for review

**Background:** each meeting, Bitcoin Core developers discuss which Pull
Requests (PRs) the meeting participants think most need review in the
upcoming week.  Some of these PRs are related to code that contributors
especially want to see in the next release; others are PRs that are
blocking further work or which require significant maintenance (rebasing)
to keep in a pending state.  Any capable reviewers are encouraged to
visit the project's list of [current high-priority
PRs][].

**Discussion ([log](http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-04-26-19.00.log.html#l-16)):**
prior to discussing particular issues, Matt Corallo raised a concern,
"we haven't really been getting any review on the 'high priority' list, so
[I'm] not sure the use of bringing it up every week."  Other contributors
agreed that items on the list haven't received much review in the past
several weeks, but many comments seemed to be in favor of keeping the
list.  The topic was not explicitly resolved, but it seems that the list
will continue to be used for at least another week.

The issue of some GitHub pages not loading ("unicorns") as mentioned in
the previous two weekly meeting summaries was briefly mentioned in this
meeting again.

Specific PRs discussed during the meeting include,

1. **Split validationinterface into parallel validation/mempool
   interfaces ([#12979][]),** which was previously added to the list.
   This PR splits up logic related to validating transactions coming
   into the mempool into separate validation and mempool interfaces,
   making it easier to get certain information about the mempool and
   laying the groundwork for potential improvements to Bitcoin Core's
   fee estimator.

    Pieter Wuille noted that he "started reviewing #12979 but had
    difficulty following [it]."  The PR author, Corallo, said that "it's
    a pure refactor.  All it is [doing] is moving things around."
    Corallo also mentioned that it's on the high-priority list because
    it's "blocking about 10 other things."

1. **Introduce `getblockstats` RPC to [provide data that can be used to]
   plot things ([#10757][]),** previously nominated by Jorge Timón.
   This PR adds a new RPC that returns various details and statistics
   about a specified block.

    Anthony Towns noted that this PR received some review during the
    previous week but that it still had some minor outstanding issues.

## The necessity of "totalFee" as an argument for bumpfee

**Background:** Bitcoin Core provides a `bumpfee` RPC to allow
increasing ("bumping") the transaction fee paid on any of the user's
unconfirmed transactions that signal [BIP125][] opt-in Replace-By-Fee
(RBF) transaction replacability.  By default, this RPC calculates the
amount of the increase on its own, but it also allows the user to
optionally specify the new fee to pay using the `totalFee` parameter.

**Discussion ([log](http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-04-26-19.00.log.html#l-87)):** Gregory Sanders requested the topic and
asked, "is [the `totalFee` parameter] needed?  [...] I was hoping to
upgrade RBF/CPFP [Child Pays For Parent] in the not too distant future, but
it complicates [the] logic to support [this parameter]."  

Anthony Towns suggested the parameter (or a replacement) could be used
instead as an upper bound on how much fee the user was willing to pay
and the RPC could error out if the automatically-determined increase
value exceeded that ceiling.

Sanders further described his motivation for wanting to drop the
parameter: "I redid [`bumpfee`] to just use `CreateTransaction` so it
will select more coins, which changes size."  In other words, adding
more inputs (coins) to the replacement transaction makes the replacement
larger than the original transaction and requires paying additional fees
to cover the increased size---but the user won't know that at the time
they call `bumpfee` with a specific `totalFee` parameter.

Luke Dashjr, Suhas Daftuar, and Pieter Wuille all seemed to agree that
`totalFee` doesn't seem to make sense when changing the size of the
transaction.

**Conclusion:** no explicit conclusion.  Sanders closed the topic by
suggesting he could design the upgraded `bumpfee` to use the new
behavior of allowing additional inputs by default but optionally
supporting the old behavior when `totalFee` is used where additional
inputs will not be added and the RPC will fail when the current inputs
aren't sufficient to pay for the desired fee increase.  That would be
"backwards compatible without additional cruft."

## Remove safemode

**Background:** an early version of the Bitcoin Core software (when it
was called "Bitcoin") introduced a "safe mode" that disabled certain
RPCs during network disruptions in order to try to prevent users from
losing money.  The criteria that triggered safe mode have changed over
the years, new RPCs were rarely added to the list that were disabled in
safe mode, and eventually Bitcoin Core 0.16 disabled safe mode by
default.

**Discussion ([log](http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-04-26-19.00.log.html#l-129)):** Wladimir van der Laan requested the topic,
referenced PR [#10563][] by Andrew Chow which Van der Laan rebased
as PR [#13090][], and asked, "safemode was disabled since 0.16; should
we completely remove it for 0.17?"

Several contributors said they weren't aware of anyone using it and
didn't think it's currently useful.  Pieter Wuille said, "disabling RPCs
is not how the Bitcoin ecosystem will deal with an emergency anyway---a
lot of infrastructure wouldn't even notice."

Van der Laan noted that Bitcoin Core will continue to provide an
`-alertnotify` startup parameter which can be used to run an arbitrary
script when safemode would have activated.  Luke Dashjr suggested that
`-alertnotify` could be used with a proposed upcoming RPC,
`walletunload`, to disable the wallet during an emergency; that would be
similar (and possibly superior) to the current safemode design.

**Conclusion:** although a few participants wished Bitcoin Core could be
better at detecting disruptive network conditions and could
automatically do something to help users avoid losing money, all
participants seemed to be in favor of removing the current unsupported
safe mode system.  Subsequent to the meeting, #13090 was merged to remove
safe mode from the development branch.

Note, during the discussion for removing safemode, the suggestion to
combine `-alertnotify` with the proposed new RPC `walletunload` was
misinterpreted as a request to discuss the work currently being done on
`walletunload`.  This is why "walletunload" shows up as a topic in the
MeetBot meeting summary even though it was not directly discussed.

## Mini-topics

One briefly discussed topic was an update on signing certificates for
Bitcoin Core binaries since Cory Fields's
[email](https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-dev/2018-January/015542.html)
about the subject to the mailing list in January. In that email, Fields
said Gregory Maxwell was working on "establishing a new threshold
signing scheme that will allow us to handle code signing without any
single point of failure."  No update was available as Maxwell was not
present for the meeting.

## Comic relief

{% highlight text %}
<wumpus>  #topic walletunload (Lukejr)
<LukeJr>  wumpus: I wasn't suggesting it as a topic
<wumpus>  LukeJr: oh...
  <sipa>  #unload walletunload
<wumpus>  #untopic
{% endhighlight %}

## Participants

| IRC nick        | Name/Nym                  |
|-----------------|---------------------------|
| wumpus          | [Wladimir van der Laan][] |
| instagibbs      | [Gregory Sanders][]       |
| BlueMatt        | [Matt Corallo][]          |
| luke-jr         | [Luke Dashjr][]           |
| sipa            | [Pieter Wuille][]         |
| sdaftuar        | [Suhas Daftuar][]         |
| jonasschnelli   | [Jonas Schnelli][]        |
| achow101        | [Andrew Chow][]           |
| aj              | [Anthony Towns][]         |
| promag          | [Joao Barbosa][]          |
| fanquake        | [Michael Ford][]          |
| jamesob         | [James O'Beirne][]        |
| jtimon          | [Jorge Timón][]           |
| cfields         | [Cory Fields][]           |
| kanzure         | [Bryan Bishop][]          |

## Disclaimer

This summary was compiled without input from any of the participants in the discussion, so any errors are the fault of the summary author and not the discussion participants.

[#12979]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/12979
[#10757]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10757
[#10563]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10563
[#13090]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/13090
[current high-priority PRs]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/projects/8

