---
title: IRC meeting summary for 2018-07-12
lang: en
permalink: /en/meetings/2018/07/12/
name: 2018-07-12-meeting
layout: page
type: meetings
version: 1
---
{% include toc.html %}
{% include references.md %}

- View this week's log on [BotBot.me][bbm log] or [MeetBot][mb log]
- [Meeting minutes by MeetBot][mb minutes]

---

Topics discussed during this weekly meeting included an announcement of
a poll to help find widely-acceptable times for future weekly meetings,
whether or not to move back the planned feature freeze date for Bitcoin
Core 0.17, whether or not to produce a 0.16.2 maintenance release (and
when to do it), status of upgrading the deterministic build environment
to a new version of Ubuntu, and the status of a PR related to what coins
(inputs) the wallet automatically chooses to spend.

The usual first topic of *high priority pull requests for review* was
skipped.  Wladimir var der Laan said, "I've intentionally skipped high
priority for review this time.  [It] seems pretty clear [that we] just
need to get the features for 0.17 in ASAP."

## Meeting time poll

**Background:** as mentioned [last meeting][], the project is trying to
determine the best times to hold weekly meetings.

**Discussion ([log][log meeting time]):** Cory Fields said, "Remember to
vote on meeting time.  If you didn't get a mail about it, now's the time
to tell me! [The poll closes] this time next week."

**Conclusion:** if you're a regular contributor, check your email for a
poll about it or contact Fields.

## Move feature freeze date?

**Background:** Bitcoin Core attempts to release a new major version
every six months.  The first step of the release process is freezing the
current feature set so that the focus can shift to maturing, testing,
and documenting the upcoming release.

**Discussion ([log][log feature freeze]):** Wladimir van der Laan
introduced the topic, "So the current feature freeze is July 16th, which
is in a few days [...] my question is, should we delay it, [or] are
there important things that [we] would otherwise miss but [which] are
*almost* ready?"

Several meeting participants listed things they'd like to get in that
they're worried won't be complete before the freeze:

- [New scantxout RPC][#12196], mentioned by Jonas Schnelli
- [New disableprivatekey setting][#9662] for watching-only wallets,
  mentioned by Schnelli
- [Partially-Signed Bitcoin Transactions support][#13557], mentioned by
  Andrew Chow
- [Machine-writeable configuration file][#11082] (rwconf), mentioned by
  Luke Dashjr

**Conclusion:** the feature freeze date was moved back one week to
Monday, July 23rd.

## 0.16.2

**Background:** Bitcoin Core occasionally produces [maintenance
releases][] that [backport][] bug fixes and minor improvements to
existing versions of Bitcoin Core.  The most recent of these was Bitcoin
Core 0.16.1, released about a month ago.

**Discussion ([log][log 0.16.2]):** the topic was suggested before the
meeting.  Wladimir van der Laan said, "It'd make sense to do a 0.16.2
release soon so it's not too short before 0.17.  [Is there] anything
that really needs to make it in besides what is already backported in
[#13644][]?"  No one in the meeting suggested any further backports.

There was some discussion about release timing.  Luke Dashjr suggested
0.16.2 could be released shortly before 0.17.0's first Release
Candidates (RCs) started to be build.  Other meeting participants argued
for keeping them apart, with Cory Fields saying, "But that way if a
backport goes bad, potentially both new versions end up busted.  I'd
rather stagger [the releases] a bit, generally speaking."

**Conclusion:** Van der Laan said, "Make sure you review \[#13644]."
After that, the project will produce 0.16.2 RC1.  If there are no bug
reports for RC1 within about a week of its release, 0.16.2 final will be
tagged.

## Gitian build to 18.04 Ubuntu Bionic

**Background:** Gitian is the system Bitcoin Core uses to allow multiple
people compiling the same code to create identical executable programs,
a process called deterministic building.  This allows each of those
builders to cryptographically attest to the program being the result of
the peer-reviewed source code.  To produce identical programs, everyone
needs to use exactly the same build software, including the same
operating system run in a virtual environment.  Currently that operating
system is an old version of Ubuntu; for the next release, the plan is to
use the most recent long-term-support (LTS) version of Ubuntu, 18.04
(codenamed Bionic Beaver).

**Discussion ([log][log gitian]):** Wladimir van der Laan started the
discussion, "note that we *must* upgrade, otherwise the Qt build will
fail (or [we] would have to downgrade Qt again, which is a mess)."

Cory Fields, who has been working on a significant update to the build
system toolchain said, "I was in denial that I would have toolchain
stuff done in time for 0.17.  Sadly it's not happening.  [I] just
started having a look at the current PRs."

Andrew Chow mentioned that he's worked on a Docker-based build system,
and other people mentioned various other systems.

As a sub-topic, Fields mentioned that, "at some point we're going to
have to use Gitian (or similar) to build all-deterministic toolchains.
The work isn't done for all toolchains yet, but I do have something
working that gets us a native one.  I'm proposing that we go ahead and
build that one so that it can later be used to build the rest [...] as
with that done deterministically, we wouldn't have to rely on a distro
toolchain at all for 0.18."

**Conclusion:** work will continue on ensuring that the project's
updated Gitian configuration is ready by the time the release candidates
are ready to be built.  Fields will "try to get enough together to PR
something" related to his initial all-deterministic-toolchains work.

## Status of PR #12257: coin selection destination groups

*Not a tagged topic, but a separate discussion started after the
previous topic.*

**Background:** a focus of a significant amount of work in the past six
months has been Bitcoin Core's coin selection---how its wallet decides which
inputs to spend in a particular transaction.  PR [#12257][] adds an
option to Bitcoin Core's wallet that causes it to spend every output
received to the same address whenever any of those outputs would be
spent.  This prevents two outputs to the same address from being spent
in separate transactions, which is a common way the wallet reduces
privacy.  The downside is that it may make transactions larger than the
smallest they need to be.

**Discussion ([log][log coin selection]):** Gregory Maxwell asked, "I
guess [the author of PR #12257, Kalle Alm,] isn't here (timezone
[conflict]) but I wondered what was the status of #12257?"

Pieter Wuille replied, "I held off on [reviewing] it, expecting other
more invasive changes to coin selection to go in first, but if that
isn't happening for 0.17, maybe we can do destination groups first."

Andrew Chow suggested simulating its behavior along with his
single-random-draw coin selection code as [described in a previous
meeting][srd].

**Conclusion:** Maxwell said, "I'd forgotten about [PR #12257], sounds
like some of the rest of us did too [...] Consider yourselves reminded."

## Mini-topics

- **Unicorns:** several meeting participants noted that GitHub pages are
  failing to load again, as mentioned in at least six previous meetings
  ([1][m1], [2][m2], [3][m3], [4][m4], [5][m6], [6][m6]), and are
  instead displaying an illustration of an angry unicorn.  This prevents
  reviews on Bitcoin Core PRs, or at least slows them down while
  reviewers attempt workarounds.
  
## Participants

| IRC nick        | Name/Nym                  |
|-----------------|---------------------------|
| wumpus          | [Wladimir van der Laan][] |
| luke-jr         | [Luke Dashjr][]           |
| cfields         | [Cory Fields][]           |
| sipa            | [Pieter Wuille][]         |
| gmaxwell        | [Gregory Maxwell][]       |
| achow101        | [Andrew Chow][]           |
| jonasschnelli   | [Jonas Schnelli][]        |
| instagibbs      | [Gregory Sanders][]       |
| meshcollider    | [Samuel Dobson][]         |
| BlueMatt        | [Matt Corallo][]          |
| kanzure         | [Bryan Bishop][]          |
| MarcoFalke      | [Marco Falke][]           |
| ken2812221      | [Chun Kuan Lee][]         |
| jamesob         | [James O'Beirne][]        |
| jnewbery        | [John Newbery][]          |
| nmnkgl          | [Gleb Naumenko][]         |

## Disclaimer

This summary was compiled without input from any of the participants in
the discussion, so any errors are the fault of the summary author and
not the discussion participants.  In particular, quotes taken from the
discussion had their capitalization, punctuation, and spelling modified
to produce consistent sentences.  Bracketed words and fragments, as well
as background narratives and exposition, were added by the author of
this summary and may have accidentally changed the meaning of some
sentences.  If you believe any quote was taken out of context, please
[open an issue](https://github.com/bitcoin-core/bitcoincore.org/issues/new)
and we will correct the mistake.

[bbm log]: https://botbot.me/freenode/bitcoin-core-dev/msg/102030043/
[mb minutes]: http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-07-12-19.00.html
[current high-priority PRs]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/projects/8

{% assign log = "http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-07-12-19.00.log.html" %}
[mb log]: {{log}}
[log meeting time]: {{log}}#l-15
[log feature freeze]: {{log}}#l-28
[log 0.16.2]: {{log}}#l-77
[log gitian]: {{log}}#l-104
[log coin selection]: {{log}}#l-194

[last meeting]: /en/meetings/2018/07/05/
[maintenance releases]: /en/lifecycle/#versioning
[backport]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Backporting
[docs repo]: https://github.com/bitcoin-core/docs
[srd]: /en/meetings/2018/06/21/#coin-selection

[m1]: /en/meetings/2018/04/12/
[m2]: /en/meetings/2018/04/19/
[m3]: /en/meetings/2018/04/26/
[m4]: /en/meetings/2018/05/03/
[m5]: /en/meetings/2018/05/10/
[m6]: /en/meetings/2018/05/17/

{% include link-to-issues.md issues="13644,12257,12196,9662,13557,11082" %}
