---
title: IRC meeting summary for 2016-09-01
permalink: /en/meetings/2016/09/01/
name: 2016-09-01-meeting
type: meetings
lang: en
version: 1
---
{% include toc.html %}
 
- [Link to this week logs](https://botbot.me/freenode/bitcoin-core-dev/2016-09-01/?msg=72346265&page=2)
- [Meeting minutes by meetbot](http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2016/bitcoin-core-dev.2016-09-01-19.01.html)
 
---
 
## Notes / short topics

- 0.13 deployment seems to be trouble free 
- There have been issues ([8532](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/8532), [8425](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/8425), [8429](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/8429)) reported with Travis. It seems to be Travis infrastructure causing some of the failures. There's also a race condition explained by fields: " the issue there is that the node heights are in sync, but the wallet hasn't necessarily updated with their txs. So sync_all() followed by a balance check is racy."

## Main topics
 
- Remaining 0.13.1 issues
- nulldummy and low_s softfork proposals

## Remaining 0.13.1 issues

### background

Bitcoin Core 0.13.0 is [released](/en/2016/08/23/release-0.13.0/) on 2016/08/23. The next point release 0.13.1 will probably include the segregated witness softfork activation logic, among other bugfixes and optimizations.

### meeting comments

There's a lot of pull request tagged for 0.13.1. Wumpus wonders if there are any that should be prioritized for review as some of them conflict. PR[#8393][] (Support for compact blocks together with segwit) is a blocker as well as a solution for the [DoS issues](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/8279) talked about in the [2016/08/04](/en/meetings/2016/08/04/#segwit-mempool-malleability-dos) and [2016/08/25](https://bitcoincore.org/en/meetings/2016/08/25/#proposals-for-segwit-dos-protection) meeting. Sipa is not comfortable with the previous suggestion of fully validating everything. Luke-jr and sdaftuar like the approach of the rejection cache using the witness hash instead of txid, however this requires redoing transaction relay which is a big change and has some complications like duplicating several indexes. Most people like the idea of making the feefilter mandatory, although it's not as much of a silver bullet as some other solutions. Sipa wonders if everyone is fine with doing rejection cache only for non-witness, and [heuristics][#8499] for detecting invalid witness bloating for the most common transaction types, for example checking whether the witness program's embedded script hash matches the hash of the witness script. Luke-jr thinks a mandatory feefilter will likely cause issues with diverging fee policies and ancestor feerate (Child-Pays-For-Parent), gmaxwell notes CPFP relay is already inhibited to the maximum extent that it could be by feefilter in the current form; mandatory feefilter won't make it worse.

BlueMatt wonders if the feefilter isn't de-anonymizing and whether we should round/randomize the amount somewhat. Gmaxwell explains it's already doing that, but we can't guarantee that a single node with multiple interfaces can't be distinguished as the same node, as there are several other ways to do this.

Jeremyrubin mentions his [Checkqueue Lockfree][#8464] is passing tests and would like to hear what people like to see, for it to merge. BlueMatt notes this brings a performance improvement of 10-20% to checkqueue.

Gmaxwell likes to see PR [#8594][] (Do not add random inbound peers to addrman) backported to 0.13.1.

### meeting conclusion

- Review PR [#8499][] (Check bad witness) and [#8525][] (Do not store witness txn in rejection cache)

## nulldummy and low_s softfork proposals

### background

A source of malleability is the 'S' value in the ECDSA signature which can have 2 values, a high and low value. Last year a policy was introduced to have nodes require the low-s value (talked about in the [2015-10-08 meeting](/en/meetings/2015/10/08/#low-s-change)). Sipa now proposes to make this a consensus rule, instead of just a policy.

This was previous discussed in the 2016/08/11 [meeting](/en/meetings/2016/08/11/#softfork-to-make-low-s-required)

### meeting comments
 
This topic needs revisiting as jl2012 [discovered](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/8533#issuecomment-243973512) that low_s has a really strange implementation issue leaked into the semantics, which is not an issue for standardness, but for consensus we should prefer clean semantics. This can be achieved by doing the '[only-empty-signature-in-invalid-checksig][#8634]' softfork as well. Sipa proposes to do the low_s softfork later with the empty sig rule, and only bundle nulldummy with segwit.

BlueMatt asks whether there's ever been non-zero length invalid signatures in the chain by using OP_NOT. There's been at least one case. BlueMatt proposes to make non-zero length invalid signatures non-standard in 0.13.1
 
### meeting conclusion

- Make non-zero length invalid signatures non-standard

## Comic relief

{% highlight text %}
BlueMatt      but can be OP_NOT'd, no?
sipa          yes, but nobody sane does that
BlueMatt      sure, but /has/ anyone ever done so?
jtimon        BlueMatt: good question, petertodd has anybody done that? :p
sipa          petertodd: have you done that?
petertodd     sipa: me personally, probably not - I'm a fine arts grad :P

BlueMatt      I was informed that non-0-length invalid sigs is not nonstd
gmaxwell      It is non-standard for segwit. (unless I am on drugs.)
sipa          gmaxwell: you're on drugs

cfields       well, as a nasty short-term fix, we can just throw some sleeps in after sync. that should at least shut travis up while we work on a fix
gmaxwell      sleeps for now sound fine to me. We could all use more sleep.
{% endhighlight %}

## Participants
 
| IRC nick        | Name/Nym                  |
|-----------------|---------------------------|
| sipa            | [Pieter Wuille][]         |
| gmaxwell        | [Gregory Maxwell][]       |
| wumpus          | [Wladimir van der Laan][] |
| btcdrak         | [BtcDrak][]               |
| kanzure         | [Bryan Bishop][]          |
| cfields         | [Cory Fields][]           |
| petertodd       | [Peter Todd][]            |
| jonasschnelli   | [Jonas Schnelli][]        |
| CodeShark       | [Eric Lombrozo][]         |
| luke-jr         | [Luke Dashjr][]           |
| paveljanik      | [Pavel Janik][]           |
| instagibbs      | [Gregory Sanders][]       |
| jeremyrubin     | [Jeremy Rubin][]          |
| sdaftuar        | [Suhas Daftuar][]         |
| BlueMatt        | [Matt Corallo][]          |
| jtimon          | [Jorge Tim√≥n][]           |

## Disclaimer
 
This summary was compiled without input from any of the participants in the discussion, so any errors are the fault of the summary author and not the discussion participants.

[#8393]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/8393
[#8499]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/8499
[#8464]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/8464
[#8594]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/8594
[#8634]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/8634
[#8525]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/8525

{% include references.md %}
