---
title: IRC meeting summary for 2017-11-09
permalink: /en/meetings/2017/11/09/
name: 2017-11-09-meeting
type: meetings
lang: en
version: 1
---
{% include toc.html %}

- [Link to this week logs](https://botbot.me/freenode/bitcoin-core-dev/2017-11-09/?msg=93346267&page=3)
- [Meeting minutes by meetbot](http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2017/bitcoin-core-dev.2017-11-09-19.02.log.html)

---

## Main topics

- Bitcoin Core 0.15.1

## Bitcoin Core 0.15.1

### Background

  Bitcoin release 0.15.1 has gone through the RC cycle and will be released.

### Meeting Comments

  - Segwit wallet will be included in the 0.16 release.
    - Segwit wallet PR can be found here [#11403][]
  - New Pull requests in high priority review.
    - Pull request [#10286][]
  - MarcoFalke brings up that Apple signing keys are expiring early next year and the Windows signing key is expiring in 2019. These signing keys are for authenticating applications that are published on the internet like Core. Currently the keys are associated with the Bitcoin Foundation. This makes it look like the Foundation is creating the software when in reality they have nothing to do with the creation of the software. The plan is to create a holding company that's only function is to be the name to be used to get the certificates signed by apple and microsoft. There will be a MPC RSA scheme which will allow Core to use a multisig when signing the software. This public key will allow people to verify that the software is from Bitcoin Core.

## Comic relief

{% highlight text %}
<luke-jr> "We Just Codesign Stuff We Want, LLC" XD
<cfields> luke-jr: that's my end goal, actually
<jonasschnelli> Indeed
<jonasschnelli> It's one entity luke-jr
<wumpus> well adversarial versus consensus-compatible is easy to draw
<gmaxwell> there is another issue, I'm pretty sure that apple will not grant a key to "I sign random shit LLC"
<jonasschnelli> You can found a "Knots Code Signing Assoc"
{% endhighlight %}

## Participants

| IRC nick        | Name/Nym                  |
|-----------------|---------------------------|
| cfields         | [Cory Fields][]           |
| luke-jr         | [Luke Dashjr][]           |
| gmaxwell        | [Gregory Maxwell][]       |
| wumpus          | [Wladimir van der Laan][] |
| morcos          | [Alex Morcos][]           |
| sdaftuar        | [Suhas Daftuar][]         |
| BlueMatt        | [Matt Corallo][]          |
| achow101        | [Andrew Chow][]           |
| jnewbery       | [John Newbery][]         |
| meshcollider    | [Samuel Dobson][]         |
| karelb          | [Karel Bilek][]           |
| MarcoFalke          | [Marco Falke][]           |
| jonasschnelli          | [Jonas Schnelli][]           |
| sipa          | [Pieter Wuille][]           |
| promag          | [Joao Barbosa][]           |
| kanzure          | [Bryan Bishop][]           |
| instagibbs          | [Gregory Sanders][]           |

## Disclaimer

This summary was compiled without input from any of the participants in the discussion, so any errors are the fault of the summary author and not the discussion participants.

[#11403]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/11403
[#10286]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10286


{% include references.md %}
