---
title: IRC meeting summary for 2018-05-10
permalink: /en/meetings/2018/05/10/
name: 2018-05-10-meeting
type: meetings
lang: en
version: 1
---
{% include toc.html %}
{% include references.md %}

- View this week's log on [BotBot.me](https://botbot.me/freenode/bitcoin-core-dev/msg/99928845/) or [MeetBot](http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-05-10-19.00.log.html)
- [Meeting minutes by MeetBot](http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-05-10-19.00.html)

---

Topics discussed during this weekly meeting included pull requests the
meeting participants would most like to see reviewed, potentially moving
off of GitHub if pages continue not to load reliably, how to fix a
performance regression, future designs for storing transaction script
data in memory, and whether or not create additional review queues.

## High priority for review

**Background:** each meeting, Bitcoin Core developers discuss which Pull
Requests (PRs) the meeting participants think most need review in the
upcoming week.  Some of these PRs are related to code that contributors
especially want to see in the next release; others are PRs that are
blocking further work or which require significant maintenance (rebasing)
to keep in a pending state.  Any capable reviewers are encouraged to
visit the project's list of [current high-priority
PRs][].

**Discussion
([log](http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-05-10-19.00.log.html#l-16)):** PRs specifically discussed included,

- **[wallet] `loadwallet` RPC - load wallet at runtime ([#10740][]).**
  This is one of a set of PRs that (if accepted) will allow Bitcoin Core
  to create, load, and unload wallets at runtime in the context of the
  multiwallet mode added in Bitcoin Core 0.15.0.  In the meeting, Joao
  Barbosa suggested this PR "is good to go" and Wladimir van der Laan
  said it "should be pretty close to mergeable."

- **BIP 158: Compact Block Filters for Light Clients ([#12254][]).**
  This PR allows Bitcoin Core to generate compact indices for some of
  the information contained within a block.  These indices can then be
  shared with lightweight clients to allow them to determine whether or
  not the block contains information relevant to the client's wallet, at
  which point the client can request to download the whole block
  (possibly from a different peer).

While discussing specific PRs, the issue of GitHub pages not loading
(displaying a unicorn-themed error instead) was mentioned for the nth
time.  Matt Corallo said, "if this unicorns thing persists we're gonna
have to move off GitHub.  Mostly it works if you refresh enough or are
logged out, but neither of those is a solution when the refresh count is
about 10, [and] we can't use a platform where half the contributors
can't load PRs."

Wladimir van der Laan replied, "agree.  GitHub is pretty much useless
this way."  Other participants shared their techniques for working
around the issue some of the time.

**Conclusion:** reviewers are encouraged to visit the project's list of
[current high-priority PRs][].  No specific plan for leaving GitHub was
discussed; it seems likely that meeting participants are hoping that
GitHub will fix their system.

## Cache witness hash in CTransaction

**Background:** when Bitcoin Core needs to store a transaction in
memory, it uses the `CTransaction` data type.  This contains enough
information to construct a witness transaction identifier (*wtxid*, or
*witness hash*) for the transaction.  The CTransaction data type could
be extended to contain a pre-computed (cached) copy of the witness hash.

**Discussion
([log](http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-05-10-19.00.log.html#l-51)):**
Marco Falke requested the topic, cited PR [#13011][], and introduced the
subject: "The witness hash is used for all loose transactions, so
caching it would speed up validation (e.g. [AcceptToMemoryPool] and
compact block relay). Also, the witness hash is equal to the "normal
hash" [txid] for transactions without a witness, so there is overhead
for rescan/reindex [but it] is currently minimal (since there are not
many transactions with witness[es]).  The gains of caching the witness
hash dwarf any overhead during rescan/reindex, [in my opinion]. And of
course, we can just rework rescan in a future PR."

Pieter Wuille provided the counterpoint: "[The] downside is that it
makes the transactions larger [in memory], and hardcodes some validation
specific logic into the transaction data structure (which for example
also affects serving blocks from disks, etc)."

Matt Corallo was in favor of the proposal, "[The] upside is we rectify a
significant performance regression."

Wuille suggested separating the data types used for transactions so that
the witness hash didn't need to be generated and stored when it isn't
needed.  Wladimir van der Laan seemed to agree, saying "let's not make
the code a mess [in order] to rush ahead."

Also discussed was whether or not the proposed change should be
backported to the next minor version of Bitcoin Core.  Corallo was in
favor of backporting, but Van der Laan, Cory Fields, and Alex Morcos
were opposed (although perhaps not strongly opposed).

**Conclusion:** No explicit conclusion.  PR [#13011][] was added to the
list of [current high-priority PRs][] during the discussion.

## One big malloc

**Background:** In the C++ programming language Bitcoin Core is written
in, the primary function for Memory ALLOCation is called `malloc()`.  Currently,
as described in PR [#13062][], memory is allocated for the scripts
in transactions in a way that optimizes for caching scriptPubKeys but
which has suboptimal performance in other cases.  That PR works towards
separating the storage of scripts in memory from the way they are
accessed in the program, so that both storage and access
(representation) can be optimized.

**Discussion
([log](http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-05-10-19.00.log.html#l-109)):**
Cory Fields requested the topic and introduced it: "\[Pieter Wuille] and
I have discussed this briefly: [...] one malloc for script data per
block.  [That] got me wondering if it'd be worthwhile to change the P2P
[network protocol message] format to be more agreeable with allocations
(next time we're changing something that is, not for this alone)."

Jonas Schnelli offered an example of what that'd look like, as confirmed
by Fields, "Things like `inv` size comes before the actual `inv` data."

Subsequent discussion focused not on Field's original point but on the
advantages and disadvantages of the method PR [#13062][] uses to store
scripts in memory, called `span`.  Arguing against `span`, at least
"unless there is demonstrated use" of it, was Matt Corallo.

Arguing in favor of `span` were Fields and Wuille.  Fields said, "[It]
seems absolutely necessary to me if we're ever going to untangle our
subsystems."  Wuille agreed, saying, "exactly: it's abstracting
representation from processing."

Corallo rebutted, "Why?  If it's just operating on a CScript, it should
just operate on a CScript."  After some more discussion, Corallo said he
understood the potential advantages but still wanted to see it being
used in a mergeable PR before making the change, "Yes, I get it, and I
like the option...when we have a user."

**Conclusion:** no explicit conclusion.  Wuille and Fields may need to
put more effort into proving the advantages of their approach before PRs
related to it are accepted.

## Review coordination

**Background:** the Bitcoin Core project currently has over 250 open
PRs, almost all of which require review (or additional review) before
they can be considered for merging.  Contributors have been saying for
years that they wished the project had more people spending more time
reviewing PRs.

**Discussion:** Jim Posen requested and introduced the topic, "[In
addition to the list of high priority PRs], I think there's space for
another list of things that have been concept ACK'd for people to review
so that everyone is reviewing different stuff and there's some actual
coordination."

Pieter Wuille suggested the relatively new website
[BitcoinACKS.com](https://bitcoinacks.com/), which Posen agreed "is
great."  Wuille supported Posen's idea, "Having a better overview on
what is concept ACKs (and, similarly, encouraging people to concept
ACK/NACK quickly) would be good."

Wladimir van der Laan argued against the idea, saying that "Now everyone
can have a PR on [the current high priority list] that's blocking them,
which should foster cooperation."  Matt Corallo agreed, "the
million-papercut-PR review approach doesn't get us anywhere as a
project, [but] reviewing things on the high priority list does (at least
to me)."

**Conclusion:** no explicit conclusion.  Corallo personally concluded,
"I don't think we're making any more progress this week than we have the
last 10 times we've discussed this."

## Comic relief

{% highlight text %}
<morcos> i'm back
<wumpus> welcome back!
  <sipa> hi back, i'm pieter
<morcos> oh man...
{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight text %}
 <cfields> well another option is std::allocator magic,
           without having to switch to Span
  <wumpus> noooo
  <wumpus> no magic
 <cfields> wumpus: i can't argue with that, it looks like voodoo
    <sipa> damn cool voodoo.
    <sipa> but voodoo.
  <wumpus> c++ is already too much voodoo
    <sipa> let's switch to BASIC
{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight text %}
    <sipa> bitcoinacks.com ? :)
<BlueMatt> apparently it doesnt distinguish between nacks and acks
    <sipa> ha.
  <wumpus> lol that's an interesting bug
    <sipa> "nack" "nack" "nack" "merged!"
{% endhighlight %}

## Participants

| IRC nick        | Name/Nym                  |
|-----------------|---------------------------|
| wumpus          | [Wladimir van der Laan][] |
| BlueMatt        | [Matt Corallo][]          |
| sipa            | [Pieter Wuille][]         |
| jimpo           | [Jim Posen][]             |
| cfields         | [Cory Fields][]           |
| jonasschnelli   | [Jonas Schnelli][]        |
| MarcoFalke      | [Marco Falke][]           |
| promag          | [Joao Barbosa][]          |
| luke-jr         | [Luke Dashjr][]           |
| jamesob         | [James O'Beirne][]        |
| morcos          | [Alex Morcos][]           |
| achow101        | [Andrew Chow][]           |
| jcorgan         | [Johnathan Corgan][]      |
| kanzure         | [Bryan Bishop][]          |
| provoostenator  | [Sjors Provoost][]        |


## Disclaimer

This summary was compiled without input from any of the participants in
the discussion, so any errors are the fault of the summary author and
not the discussion participants.  In particular, quotes taken from the
discussion had their capitalization, punctuation, and spelling modified
to produce consistent sentences.  Bracketed words and fragments, as well
as background narratives and exposition, were added by the author of
this summary and may have accidentally changed the meaning of some
sentences.  If you believe any quote was taken out of context, please
[open an issue](https://github.com/bitcoin-core/bitcoincore.org/issues/new)
and we will correct the mistake.



[#10740]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/10740
[#12254]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/12254
[#13011]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/13011
[#13062]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/13062
[current high-priority PRs]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/projects/8

