---
title: IRC meeting summary for 2018-07-19
lang: en
permalink: /en/meetings/2018/07/19/
name: 2018-07-19-meeting
type: meetings
version: 1
---
{% include toc.html %}
{% include references.md %}

- View this week's log on [BotBot.me][bbm log] or [MeetBot][mb log]
- [Meeting minutes by MeetBot][mb minutes]

---

Topics discussed during this weekly meeting included pull requests that
need to be reviewed before Monday's feature freeze for Bitcoin Core
0.17, whether or not Bitcoin Core's algorithm for selection of which
inputs (coins) to spend should be made available as an RPC, a new way of
describing which outputs the wallet should monitor and an implementation
of this method for the new `scantxoutset` RPC, whether Pieter Wuille's
bitcoin-seeder program should become part of the Bitcoin Core GitHub
organization, whether the Bitcoin Core project should stop publishing
release notes and binaries to Bitcoin.org, and information about the
next CoreDev Tech meeting.

Prior to the start of discussion, Wladimir van der Laan mentioned that
the executables for Bitcoin Core 0.16.2 Release Candidate (RC) 2 are
[available for testers][0.16.2rc2 bin].

## High priority for review

**Background:** each meeting, Bitcoin Core developers discuss which Pull
Requests (PRs) the meeting participants think most need review in the
upcoming week.  Some of these PRs are related to code that contributors
especially want to see in the next release; others are PRs that are
blocking further work or which require significant maintenance (rebasing)
to keep in a pending state.  Any capable reviewers are encouraged to
visit the project's list of [current high-priority
PRs][].

A special focus of this meeting was PRs that needed to be merged in the
next few days if their features are to be included in upcoming version
Bitcoin Core 0.17, so reviewers are also encouraged to check the list of
PRs in the [0.17 milestone][].

**Discussion ([log][log hipri]):** the following PRs were discussed:

- [#9662][] - Add create wallet "disableprivatekeys" option: a sane mode
  for watchonly-wallets.  Requested by Jonas Schnelli; Wladimir van der
  Laan said it could probably be merged soon.

- [#9502][] - [Qt] Add option to pause/resume block downloads.
  Requested by Schnelli.

- [#13697][] - Support output descriptors in scantxoutset.  Requested by
  Pieter Wuille with support from Schnelli.  Discussed in more detail
  [later](#osd) in the meeting.
  
  
- [#13666][] - Always create signatures with Low R values.  Requested by
  Wuille.

- [#13426][] - [Bugfix] Add u8path and u8string to fix encoding issue
  for Windows.  Requested by Chun Kuan Lee.

- [#13712][] - Wallet: Fix non-determinism in ParseHDKeypath; avoid
  using an uninitialized variable in path calculation.  Requested by
  Andrew Chow.

- [#8469][] - [POC] Introducing property-based testing to Core.
  Requested to be removed from the 0.17 list by Schnelli, as it's not
  ready.

- [#13617][] - Require MacOS 10.10+.  Initially requested for removal
  from the list, but added back after a comment by Cory Fields.

**Conclusion:** there were over a dozen PRs tagged for 0.17 by the end
of this segment of the meeting for a review deadline of Monday.

## Exposing coin selection on RPC

**Background:** Coin selection is the name used for how a wallet chooses
which of a user's bitcoins to spend in a particular transaction.  The
selected *Unspent Transaction Outputs (UTXOs)*, often simply called
*coins,* become *inputs* in the transaction.  Developers have spent
a significant amount of time in the past year improving Bitcoin Core's coin selection to be
able to sometimes improve privacy and lower transaction sizes (thus
reducing fees) for users of Bitcoin Core's built-in wallet, with more
improvements on the way.

**Discussion ([log][log rpc coin selection]):** Andrew Chow requested
the topic and introduced it: "This came up in a discussion with some
companies about coin selection.  Basically, some are interested in using
Core's coin selection (or someone else's) instead of having to
implement/roll their own.  Currently if they wanted to use Core's coin
selection, the UTXOs need to be in the wallet---i.e., the addresses and
possibly keys need to be in the wallet."

Wladimir van der Laan and Gregory Maxwell suggested that they could use the
[`fundrawtransaction`][rpc fundrawtransaction] RPC to use Bitcoin Core's
coin selection.  Jonas Schnelli added, "using private key disabled
dynamic wallet in conjunction with fundraw seems very efficient,"
referring in part to PR [#9662][].

Chow said, "that is not ideal for them" and Pieter Wuille followed up
with, "they'd don't want to use the wallet; they just want to be able to
run coin selection."

Several meeting participants suggested it could be done as a library,
but Maxwell argued against doing it within the project as either an RPC
or a library: "I am doubtful that it is worth our effort in maintaining
a stable interface for such a thing.  E.g.  [Kalle Alm]'s recent
[grouping PR][#12257] would've obliterated the interface for coin
selection [...] Pressure to maintain a stable interface to [coin
selection] would be harmful to the project.  [...] I don't want to hear
'we can't implement privacy feature X because it'll break [the coin
selection] interface'."

Wladimir van der Laan said, "I think this is not a concern for our
project.  Some other people want a coin selection algorithm for their
own purposes.  [That's] fine, they can make a library out of it
themselves, the code is open source."  Maxwell suggested, "Perhaps they
should contribute to making the wallet code better so they don't have
to write their own (smiley face with tongue sticking out)."

**Conclusion:** although the idea of an RPC method was generally
opposed, Wuille did suggest a path forward: "I think the first step for
this is something we're doing anyway: making the code itself more
encapsulated.  Perhaps once the code is sufficiently encapsulated,
someone else can librarify that and maintain it."

## <!----> #13697 which changes the API for scantxoutset {#osd}

**Background:** recently-merged PR [#12196][] adds a `scantxoutset` RPC
that allows the user to search the set of currently-spendable bitcoins
(UTXO set) for any outputs that correspond to one or more specified
addresses, public keys, private keys, or set of HD keys.  As discussed
in the [June 28th][meet osd] meeting, Pieter Wuille is working on a [new
way][osd gist] to specify what outputs (scriptPubKeys) a wallet should
look for, called Output Script Descriptors, and he has PR [#13697][] open
to add support for that to `scantxoutset` instead of the current ways
keys and scripts are described to the wallet.

**Discussion ([log][log scantxoutset api]):** Wuille requested and
introduced the topic, "first of all, this is part a bigger effort to
combine keys and scripts and [HD wallet] chains into one concept.
There's a mini language to specify (sets of) scriptPubKeys, so I'd very
much first want to hear comments on that language.  The other question
is [whether] `scantxoutset` [is] experimental or not, and [is it so]
with descriptor support in 0.17 or not?"

Wladimir van der Laan and Jonas Schnelli both said they liked the idea
of output script descriptors, and they also both supported marking
`scantxoutset` as experimental for the 0.17 release, which will allow the
project to freely change its API for subsequent releases and make it
easy to incorporate feedback from users of the new RPC and new output
script descriptors language.

Luke Dashjr asked, "Should [output script descriptors] be a BIP?  Seems
potentially useful outside Core."  Wuille replied, "potentially yes, but
not in the first instance.  I expect that this will evolve rather
quickly."

**Conclusion:** No objections were raised to the idea of marking
`scantxoutset` experimental for the 0.17 release, or to using output
script descriptors if [#13697][] passes review.

## Bitcoin-seeder under bitcoin-core GitHub organization

**Background:** although Bitcoin uses a peer-to-peer protocol, nodes
started for the first time don't know the IP addresses of any peers to
connect to (except for some fallback addresses for last-ditch use), so
they request a list of IP address for recently-active notes from a
program called a *Bitcoin seeder.*  The node then connects to those
peers and those peers can tell the new node about other peers, so all
future connections can often be made completely decentralized---but a
node can use the seeder again if decentralized peer finding isn't
working for it.

There are several seeder programs written by different authors.  One of
them is maintained by Pieter Wuille and is simply called [bitcoin-seeder][].

**Discussion ([log][log seeder]):** Lucas Betschart requested and
introduced the topic: "I thought because there are a few open issues and
simple PRs for bitcoin-seeder [that] it might make sense that several
Bitcoin maintainers have merge rights."

Wuille replied, "No problem as far as I'm concerned, but I'm not sure
it's the right message."  Luke Dashjr echoed that sentiment.

**Conclusion:** Sjors Provoost suggested, "another approach could be for
[Wuille] to give more people access to that repository?"  Wuille replied,
"I'm fine with that!"  Betschart said, "That's also fine with me."

## Moving away from Bitcoin.org

**Background:** since the 2009 release of the original Bitcoin software,
Bitcoin (and later Bitcoin Core) resources have been hosted on
Bitcoin.org. Over time, this was augmented with additional resources
about the increasingly diverse Bitcoin network.

In December 2015 Bitcoin Core began using its own domain to host its
resources, and later also to host its software releases. Release
announcements and software continue to be mirrored to Bitcoin.org.

**Discussion:** Andrew Chow introduced the topic by suggesting "moving away
from Bitcoin.org". He added "we still link to bitcoin.org for things
like downloads. [We] should probably change those". See the [log][log
bco] for the full discussion. Some discussion also occurred [after the
meeting][post-meeting bco].

**Conclusion:** no explicit conclusion.  Post-meeting discussion seemed
to indicate no significant changes to the current process.

## Next CoreDev tech meeting

**Background:** periodically, some members of the Bitcoin Core team hold
an invitation-only event mainly for contributors to Bitcoin Core to
allow everyone to review and discuss various projects in person.  For
more information, see the [CoreDev.Tech][] website.

**Discussion ([log][log coredev meet]):** Steve Lee requested and
introduced the topic, "I've volunteered to organize the next Core Dev
Tech meetup.  The current thinking is to have it in Tokyo in October
after Scaling Bitcoin, October 8-10, and to organize it in a similar
fashion as the last one in NYC."

Several people thanked Lee.

**Conclusion:** Lee said, "I plan to send out a survey to collect some
feedback.  If anyone has specific ideas or suggestions, please feel free
to contact me."

## Humor

{% highlight text %}
          <sipa> what about #13666 ?
<provoostenator> What's in a number?
          <sipa> 13 and 666, can't beat those odds
        <wumpus> niice
      <achow101> it was completely planned, obviously
          <sipa> in some timezones it was also opened on
                 friday the 13th
                 oh, no
 <jonasschnelli> I hope no black cat was sitting on the
                 keyboard during coding
{% endhighlight %}


## Participants

| IRC nick        | Name/Nym                  |
|-----------------|---------------------------|
| wumpus          | [Wladimir van der Laan][] |
| sipa            | [Pieter Wuille][]         |
| jonasschnelli   | [Jonas Schnelli][]        |
| achow101        | [Andrew Chow][]           |
| luke-jr         | [Luke Dashjr][]           |
| gmaxwell        | [Gregory Maxwell][]       |
| moneyball       | [Steve Lee][]             |
| provoostenator  | [Sjors Provoost][]        |
| jnewbery        | [John Newbery][]          |
| cfields         | [Cory Fields][]           |
| lclc            | [Lucas Betschart][]       |
| ken2812221      | [Chun Kuan Lee][]         |
| kanzure         | [Bryan Bishop][]          |

## Disclaimer

This summary was compiled without input from any of the participants in
the discussion, so any errors are the fault of the summary author and
not the discussion participants.  In particular, quotes taken from the
discussion had their capitalization, punctuation, and spelling modified
to produce consistent sentences.  Bracketed words and fragments, as well
as background narratives and exposition, were added by the author of
this summary and may have accidentally changed the meaning of some
sentences.  If you believe any quote was taken out of context, please
[open an issue](https://github.com/bitcoin-core/bitcoincore.org/issues/new)
and we will correct the mistake.

[bbm log]: https://botbot.me/freenode/bitcoin-core-dev/msg/102255898/
[mb minutes]: http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-07-19-19.02.html

[current high-priority PRs]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/projects/8

{% assign log = "http://www.erisian.com.au/meetbot/bitcoin-core-dev/2018/bitcoin-core-dev.2018-07-19-19.02.log.html" %}
[mb log]: {{log}}
[log hipri]: {{log}}#l-13
[log rpc coin selection]: {{log}}#l-77
[log scantxoutset api]: {{log}}#l-173
[log seeder]: {{log}}#l-207
[log bco]: {{log}}#l-231
[log coredev meet]: {{log}}#l-279
[post-meeting bco]: https://botbot.me/freenode/bitcoin-core-dev/msg/102258762/


[meet osd]: /en/meetings/2018/06/28/#output-script-descriptors
[osd gist]: https://gist.github.com/sipa/e3d23d498c430bb601c5bca83523fa82
[coredev.tech]: https://coredev.tech/

[0.16.2rc2 bin]: https://bitcoincore.org/bin/bitcoin-core-0.16.2/test.rc2/
[0.17 milestone]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/milestone/33
[bitcoin-seeder]: https://github.com/sipa/bitcoin-seeder


{% include link-to-issues.md issues="9662,9502,13697,13666,13426,13712,8469,13617,12196,12257" %}
