---
title: Bitcoin Core 0.16.2 Released
name: blog-release-0.16.2
id: en-blog-release-0.16.2
lang: en
type: posts
layout: post

## If this is a new post, reset this counter to 1.
version: 1

## Only true if release announcement or security annoucement.  English posts only
announcement: 1

excerpt: >
  Bitcoin Core 0.16.2 is now available with new bug fixes and minor
  updates.
---
Bitcoin Core version 0.16.2 is now available for [download][download
page].  All users are encouraged to upgrade to this [maintenance
release][] that fixes several bugs and provides backports of new minor
features, such as:

- The [verifytxoutproof RPC][rpc verifytxoutproof] is no longer
  vulnerable to a particular [expensive attack][tx-as-internal-node]
  against SPV proofs publicly disclosed in early June.  The attack was
  considered unlikely given that much cheaper attacks of roughly equal
  effectiveness are well known.  Similarly, the [getblock RPC][rpc
  getblock] also now returns extra information that can be used to
  defeat this attack even if the requested block has been pruned.  None
  of this mitigates the attack for actual SPV clients.

- The [abandontransaction RPC][rpc abandontransaction] has been fixed
  to abandon all descendant transactions, not just children.  As before,
  you can call this RPC when you no longer want your wallet to
  re-broadcast an old unconfirmed transaction. Note that the RPC can not
  force miners or other nodes to forget about the transaction.

For a complete list of changes, please see the [release notes][].  If
have any questions, please stop by our [IRC chatroom][irc] and we’ll do
our best to help you.

[release notes]: /en/releases/0.16.2/
[IRC]: https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/IRC_channels
[download page]: /en/download
[maintenance release]: /en/lifecycle/#versioning
[tx-as-internal-node]: https://bitslog.wordpress.com/2018/06/09/leaf-node-weakness-in-bitcoin-merkle-tree-design/

{% include references.md %}
