---
title: Bitcoin Core 0.16.1 Released
name: blog-release-0.16.1
id: en-blog-release-0.16.1
lang: en
type: posts
layout: post
version: 1

## Only true if release announcement or security annoucement.  English posts only
announcement: 1

excerpt: >
  Bitcoin Core 0.16.1 has been released with the latest bug fixes and
  minor updates
---
Bitcoin Core version 0.16.1 is now available for [download][download
page].  All users are encouraged to upgrade to this [maintenance
release][] that fixes several bugs and provides backports of new minor
features, such as:

- Mitigating a vector for denial-of-service attacks.  This attack required
  compromising particular services and would've probably been most
  effective against nodes that were started for the first time (rather
  than nodes that had already been connected to the network for more
  than a few hours).

- Fixing a bug that could've potentially caused miners to lose revenue if
  they produced two blocks in very rapid succession.

- Ceasing relay of transactions using the rarely-seen `OP_CODESEPARATOR` opcode for legacy
  (non-segwit) signature scripts.  The presence of this opcode makes it
  difficult for nodes to estimate how much computational work will be
  required to validate a legacy signature script.  Because of that, it
  blocks the deployment of solutions to prevent attackers from creating
  blocks that require a long time to validate.  By itself, this change
  to relay policy doesn't fix the problem itself, but it does make it
  easier and safer to deploy proposed solutions in the future should
  users consent to adopt them.

For a complete list of changes, please see the [release notes][].  If
have any questions, please stop by our [IRC chatroom][irc] and we’ll do
our best to help you.

[release notes]: /en/releases/0.16.1/
[IRC]: https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/IRC_channels
[download page]: /en/download
[maintenance release]: /en/lifecycle/#versioning
