---
title: Bitcoin Core 26.1
id: en-release-26.1
name: release-26.1
permalink: /en/releases/26.1/
excerpt: Bitcoin Core version 26.1 is now available
date: 2024-04-02

## Use a YAML array for the version number to allow other parts of the
## site to correctly sort in "natural sort of version numbers".
## Use the same number of elements as decimal places, e.g. "0.1.2 => [0,
## 1, 2]" versus "1.2 => [1, 2]"
release: [26, 1]

## Optional magnet link.  To get it, open the torrent in a good BitTorrent client
## and View Details, or install the transmission-cli Debian/Ubuntu package
## and run: transmission-show -m <torrent file>
#
## Link should be enclosed in quotes and start with: "magnet:?
optional_magnetlink: "magnet:?xt=urn:btih:1cae6d38169395d3e841d61c6f6afe25de2edaf9&dn=bitcoin-core-26.1&tr=udp%3A%2F%2Ftracker.openbittorrent.com%3A80&tr=udp%3A%2F%2Ftracker.opentrackr.org%3A1337%2Fannounce&tr=udp%3A%2F%2Ftracker.coppersurfer.tk%3A6969%2Fannounce&tr=udp%3A%2F%2Ftracker.leechers-paradise.org%3A6969%2Fannounce&tr=udp%3A%2F%2Fexplodie.org%3A6969%2Fannounce&tr=udp%3A%2F%2Ftracker.torrent.eu.org%3A451%2Fannounce&tr=udp%3A%2F%2Ftracker.bitcoin.sprovoost.nl%3A6969&ws=http%3A%2F%2Fbitcoincore.org%2Fbin%2F"

# Note: it is recommended to check all links to ensure they use
#       absolute urls (https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/doc/foo)
#       rather than relative urls (/bitcoin/bitcoin/doc/foo).
---
{% include download.html %}
{% githubify https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin %}
26.1 Release Notes
==================

Bitcoin Core version 26.1 is now available from:

  <https://bitcoincore.org/bin/bitcoin-core-26.1/>

This release includes various bug fixes and performance
improvements, as well as updated translations.

Please report bugs using the issue tracker at GitHub:

  <https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues>

To receive security and update notifications, please subscribe to:

  <https://bitcoincore.org/en/list/announcements/join/>

How to Upgrade
==============

If you are running an older version, shut it down. Wait until it has completely
shut down (which might take a few minutes in some cases), then run the
installer (on Windows) or just copy over `/Applications/Bitcoin-Qt` (on macOS)
or `bitcoind`/`bitcoin-qt` (on Linux).

Upgrading directly from a version of Bitcoin Core that has reached its EOL is
possible, but it might take some time if the data directory needs to be migrated. Old
wallet versions of Bitcoin Core are generally supported.

Compatibility
==============

Bitcoin Core is supported and extensively tested on operating systems
using the Linux kernel, macOS 11.0+, and Windows 7 and newer.  Bitcoin
Core should also work on most other Unix-like systems but is not as
frequently tested on them.  It is not recommended to use Bitcoin Core on
unsupported systems.

Notable changes
===============

### Wallet

- #28994 wallet: skip BnB when SFFO is enabled
- #28920 wallet: birth time update during tx scanning
- #29176 wallet: Fix use-after-free in WalletBatch::EraseRecords
- #29510 wallet: getrawchangeaddress and getnewaddress failures should not affect keypools for descriptor wallets

### RPC

- #29003 rpc: fix getrawtransaction segfault
- #28784 rpc: keep .cookie file if it was not generated

### Logs

- #29227 log mempool loading progress

### P2P and network changes

- #29200 net: create I2P sessions using both ECIES-X25519 and ElGamal encryption
- #29412 p2p: Don't process mutated blocks
- #29524 p2p: Don't consider blocks mutated if they don't connect to known prev block

### Build

- #29127 Use hardened runtime on macOS release builds.
- #29195 build: Fix -Xclang -internal-isystem option

### CI

- #28992 ci: Use Ubuntu 24.04 Noble for asan,tsan,tidy,fuzz
- #29080 ci: Set HOMEBREW_NO_INSTALLED_DEPENDENTS_CHECK to avoid unrelated failures
- #29610 ci: Fix "macOS native" job

### Miscellaneous

- #28391 refactor: Simplify CTxMempool/BlockAssembler fields, remove some external mapTx access
- #29179 test: wallet rescan with reorged parent + IsFromMe child in mempool
- #28791 snapshots: don't core dump when running -checkblockindex after loadtxoutset
- #29357 test: Drop x modifier in fsbridge::fopen call for MinGW builds
- #29529 fuzz: restrict fopencookie usage to Linux & FreeBSD

Credits
=======

Thanks to everyone who directly contributed to this release:

- dergoegge
- fanquake
- furszy
- glozow
- Greg Sanders
- Hennadii Stepanov
- Jon Atack
- MarcoFalke
- Mark Friedenbach
- Martin Zumsande
- Murch
- Roman Zeyde
- stickies-v
- UdjinM6

As well as to everyone that helped with translations on
[Transifex](https://www.transifex.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/).
{% endgithubify %}
